Innovate, Adapt, Thrive
Integrated Annual Report
2022-23

About TCS
Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and 
business solutions organization that has been partnering with 
many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys for over 55 years. Its consulting-led, cognitive powered, 
portfolio of business, technology and engineering services and 
solutions is delivered through its unique Location Independent 
Agile™ delivery model, recognized as a benchmark of excellence 
in software development.
A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational 
business group, TCS has over 614,000 of the world’s besttrained consultants in 55 countries. The company generated 
consolidated revenues of US $27.9 billion in the fiscal year 
ended March 31, 2023, and is listed on the BSE and the NSE in 
India. 
TCS’ proactive stance on climate change and award-winning 
work with communities across the world have earned it a 
place in leading sustainability indices such as the MSCI Global 
Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For 
more information, visit www.tcs.com
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive. 
This year’s theme reflects the agility that enterprises require 
to thrive in a fast-changing, uncertain world. For two years, 
enterprises battled for scarce talent to embrace the cloud and 
experiment with powerful technologies like AI and ML. They had 
just gotten started on their growth and transformation journeys 
when the war in Europe changed everything. With raging 
inflation and resultant interest rate hikes dampening global 
economic outlook, companies are now recalibrating their plans 
and adapting to the changed circumstances. 
TCS, with its full services capability, helps clients thrive in good 
times and bad. It helped them move to the cloud, accelerate 
their innovation, adopt new business models and drive 
competitive differentiation. Now it is helping them adapt, 
transforming their operations and giving them the agility, 
resilience and efficiency needed to weather the storm. Its clients 
see it as their preferred all-weather partner, making its services 
an enterprise staple, and its business very resilient.
Recent Annual Report Themes
Innovating for
Greater Futures
Building on Belief
Growth and 
Transformation 
with Business 4.0TM
Dawn of
Business 4.0TM
FY 2022
FY 2021
FY 2020
FY 2019
FY 2018
Purpose-driven.
Resilient. Adaptable

Content
About TCS.............................................................................
Board of Directors................................................................ 
Management Team..............................................................
Letter from the Chairman.................................................... 
Letter to Shareholders.........................................................
Letter from the CEO.............................................................
The Year Gone by.................................................................

Statutory Section
Notice……………………………………….........................................
Directors’ Report.................................................................
Management Discussion and Analysis................................
Awards and Accolades.........................................................
Corporate Governance Report............................................
Corporate Social Responsibility...........................................
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report…….........
Thematic Section
Integrated Reporting Framework
TCS Integrated Business Model…………………........................
Financial Capital………………………………………….......................
Human Capital…………………………………………….......................
Intellectual Capital…………………………………….........................
Social Capital…………………………………………….........................
Natural Capital……………………………………………......................
Standalone Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report……………………………....…….....
Standalone Balance Sheet………………………...........................
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss….........................
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity.......................
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows………..........................
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial 
Statements……………………………………………………….................
Statement under section 129 of the Companies Act,
2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies…………………………...
Identification of Material Topics …………………......................
Climate change risk and opportunities assessment
and management…………………………………………………............
GRI Content Index………………………………………....................... 
Sustainability Disclosures
Glossary …………………………..................................................
Independent Auditor’s Report…………...............................…
Consolidated Balance Sheet………………................................
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss…......................
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.....................
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows……..........................
Notes forming part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements………………………………………………….......
Consolidated Financial Statements
Helping Versuni become a Digital-First,
Innovation-Led Standalone Entity…………………………............
Enabling Eversource Energy’s Transition to a
Green Energy Future……………………………………………….........
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat.............................
Revolutionizing Small Value Payments in South Africa....... 
Supporting Takenaka Corporation Realize its Vision
of a Sustainable Society....................................................... 
Q&A with CFO and CHRO....................................................
Innovating to Improve Crop Yields and
Farmer Incomes...................................................................

Content | 3

Board of Directors
Don Callahan 
M M
Hanne Sorensen 
M M
Dr Pradeep Kumar
Khosla 
Keki Mistry
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
Aarthi
Subramanian
N G Subramaniam
COO & ED
M M NE
K Krithivasan
CEO & MD
M M M NE
O P Bhatt

56%
Independent
44%
Non-Independent
Board Committees
Chairman
Member
Executive
Committee
Risk Management
Committee*
*Samir Seksaria (Chief Financial Oﬃcer) is also a member of
the Committee
Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee
Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee
Audit Committee
Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
Independent, Non-Executive Director
Non-Independent, Executive Director
Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director 
Average Age (years) 
Average Tenure on
the Board (years) 
Board Independence (%)
Average Tenure of Independent
Directors on the Board (years) 
Non-Independent, Non Executive
Non-Independent, Executive
Independent, Non Executive
Board of Directors | 4

Management Team
Corporate
Susheel Vasudevan
Relationship Incubation Group
Krishnan Ramanujam
Enterprise Growth Group
Debashis Ghosh
Business Transformation Group
Suresh Muthuswami
Chairman – TCS North America
Amit Bajaj
North America
Amit Kapur
UK & Ireland
Sapthagiri Chapalapalli
Europe
K Krithivasan
Chief Executive Officer
and Managing Director
N G Subramaniam
Chief Operating Officer
and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial Officer
Milind Lakkad
Chief Human Resources Officer
Rajashree R
Chief Marketing Officer
K Ananth Krishnan
Chief Technology Officer
Madhav Anchan
General Counsel Legal
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Business Heads
Management Team | 5

Letter from the
Chairman
The global environment is going through 
considerable changes. At the same time, 
the world is navigating several important 
transitions: the Energy transition, the Supply 
Chain transition and the AI transition. 
Undoubtedly, these transitions will require 
significant investments in technology and 
innovation, and offer a huge growth 
opportunity for the IT industry.
Letter from the Chairman | 6

Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to share that your company has done well in a 
volatile global environment in the year gone by. In FY 2023, 
your company delivered revenue of ₹225,458 crore, a growth of 
17.6%. This growth has come at an industry-leading operating 
margin of 24.1%. 
TCS continues to play a crucial role with clients to enable 
their business transformation, helping them accelerate new 
technology adoption and bring agility into execution. We work 
with large enterprises on transformation initiatives to build a 
digital foundation for the future, enable strategic leverage of 
data and artificial intelligence (AI) and reimagine customer and 
employee experiences. 
Your company delivered healthy client metrics enabled by 
new customer additions and deep client relationships. 
In FY 2023, growth has come from broad-based performance 
across markets and industry verticals. The order book continues 
to be strong, indicating demand for your company’s services. 
From a talent perspective, the employee strength grew to over 
614,000 associates with 35.7% women associates.
The global environment is going through considerable changes. 
Geopolitical factors such as the conflict between Russia and 
Ukraine, rising inflation and volatile commodity prices have 
caused slowing down of global growth and created stress in the 
overall economic environment. 
At the same time, the world is navigating several transitions. 
Undoubtedly, these transitions will require significant 
investments in technology and innovation, and offer a huge 
growth opportunity for the IT industry.
The global energy transition is accelerating. Businesses are 
making clear commitments towards a sustainable future. 
There are many innovations across products, services, 
manufacturing, and delivery. New business models are also 
emerging. This requires investments in technology and 
innovation including electric mobility, renewable power, 
hydrogen and sustainable fuel. In addition, sustainability 
compliance and reporting requirements are fast evolving as new 
standards and regulations are coming into play. Across the facets 
of this transition, investments in IT and digital technology will be 
an important enabler for businesses.
The supply chain transition resulting from the geo-political 
situation is altering the global supply chains. Companies are 
rebalancing their supply chains for resilience and efficiency. 
New global supply chain ecosystems are being created with India 
playing an important role. This is being led by significant capital 
investments in technology to set-up ‘digital-first’ manufacturing 
and supply chain operations as well as to build ecosystem 
integration with partners.
In the past decade, there has been a rapid evolution of digital 
technologies, bringing about a transformation across every 
industry. Now, the advancements in AI have made AI transition 
a central focus. The impact of AI and Machine learning is going 
to be profound. There is a transition already underway from 
predictive AI to generative AI. Majority of the businesses are 
still adopting predictive AI and are on the journey of capturing 
large volume of data, harnessing the power of cloud and IoT. 
There are varying levels of adoption in companies across sectors. 
Leveraging generative AI would further require technology 
innovation and investments. 
There is another important area that companies need to focus 
on – building talent for the future. The energy, supply chain and 
AI transitions are going to require companies to reskill/upskill 
existing talent base, hire and integrate new talent and invest 
in research. Our technology strengths make us well-placed to 
respond to the global demand and scale up our talent base. 
As the future of work is evolving, enterprises globally are also 
assessing their approach to talent. Today, companies can tap 
into talent anywhere and leaders need to learn how to harness 
the global talent pool effectively. Technology and tools are 
facilitating collaboration and enabling virtual and hybrid models 
of work. Harnessing this talent will need an approach that 
leverages technologies like AI and cloud to enable effective 
employee engagement and collaboration. 
Your company is significantly investing in building AI capabilities 
which include products and platforms that are AI-powered. 
Over the last few years, your company has leveraged 
partnerships to design and orchestrate a completely indigenous 
software-defined 4G/5G network stack. 5G technologies along 
with IoT, edge and AI will enable new digital transformation 
opportunities across industries, both industrial and consumer. 
We will also invest in research areas important for the future, 
in collaboration with our global academic partners and start-up 
ecosystem. 
I would like to thank Rajesh Gopinathan for his contribution 
during his tenure as CEO & MD and I wish him the very best for 
the future. I also take this opportunity to wish K Krithivasan the 
very best in his new role as CEO & MD of your company. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Tata Consultancy Services, 
I want to thank you for your continued trust, confidence, and 
support.
Warm regards,
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
Letter from the Chairman | 7

Our full services capability enables us to help our clients thrive, 
in good times and bad. During the up-cycle, we help clients 
accelerate and expand their technology-led innovation to 
diﬀerentiate themselves and drive growth. On the down cycle, 
we help them adapt, using technology to drive the eﬃciency, 
agility and resilience needed to cope with a faltering economy, 
and prepare for better times ahead. 
Letter to
Shareholders1
Dear Stakeholder,
Demand for our services showed remarkable resilience 
even as other parts of the technology universe deflated, 
and macroeconomic uncertainties worsened in our major 
markets throughout FY 2023. Our revenue for the year 
was ₹225,458 crore, a growth of 17.6% over the prior year 
(13.7% in constant currency). 
This growth came with an industry leading operating margin of 
24.1%. Our Net Margin was at 18.7%. The Earnings Per Share 
was at ₹115.19, a growth of 11.2% over the prior year.
From an industry vertical perspective, growth in FY 2023 
was led by Retail and Consumer Business, which grew 
22.1%, Life Sciences and Healthcare which grew 20.2% and 
Communications, Media and Technology which grew 18.1%. 
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance grew 14.6% while 
Manufacturing grew 14.1%. Others, which make up 8.2% of 
revenues, grew 22.5%.
By geographic markets, North America grew 24.2%, UK grew 
11.4% and Continental Europe grew 9.2%. Among emerging 
markets, Latin America grew 24.8%, India grew 14.9%, Middle 
East & Africa grew 12.5% while Asia Pacific grew 7.1%. 
The Board has recommended a final dividend of ₹24 per 
share, bringing the total dividend for the year to ₹115 per 
share. For the full year, the company’s shareholder payout was 
₹42,079 crore, 108.2% of the free cash flow during the year.
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive
Our performance this year reflects how much of an enterprise 
staple IT services have become. Our full services capability 
enables us to help our clients thrive, in good times and bad. 
During the up-cycle, we help clients accelerate and expand 
their technology-led innovation to differentiate themselves and 
drive growth. On the down cycle, we help them adapt, using 
technology to drive the efficiency, agility and resilience needed 
to cope with a faltering economy, and prepare for better times 
ahead. 
Cloud transformation remained a high priority area for 
enterprises in FY 2023, with greater focus on execution. They 
engaged us to take up the modernization and migration of 
their bigger, more complex workloads. The breadth and depth 
of our cloud expertise, our scale, deep domain knowledge, 
strong partnership credentials with the hyperscalers and our 
portfolio of intellectual property on the cloud, give us a distinct 
competitive edge in this phase of the cloud adoption cycle. 
We also helped clients cope with the challenge of managing 
cloud expenses. In some cases, it required rearchitecting 
their application stack to be more cloud native, capable of 
dynamically ramping up resource consumption during periods 
of high demand, and automatic ramping down at other times. 
Elsewhere, we offered our FinOps advisory and cloud managed 
services to rein in cloud costs.
The adoption of cloud technologies continues to drive 
innovation within enterprises. The availability of compute, data 
1 GRI 2-22
Letter to Shareholders | 8

Investing in People
and networks at scale provides access to powerful technologies 
like advanced analytics and machine learning, applied to diverse 
areas like computer vision, text and speech processing, in 
domains like dynamic supply chain optimization, new molecule 
discovery in life sciences and usage-based pricing of insurance 
coverage. 
Newer developments like generative AI, large language models, 
and quantum computing triggered more experimentation and 
innovation by our clients. Our investments in research and 
innovation across different industries, and our Pace innovation 
architecture have positioned us well to partner with them in 
these initiatives. Our Agile Innovation Cloud offering, where 
we create dedicated, location-independent innovation teams 
to help clients accelerate and scale up their innovation, gained 
further traction in FY 2023. 7 new clients signed up during the 
year, bringing the total to 30 clients. 
Some of the emerging innovation themes that we helped 
customers with include ecosystem and multi-industry models 
underpinned by technologies like data marketplaces, API and 
blockchain, in industries like transportation and public sector; 
AI-powered autonomous robotics in the logistics industry, and 
new applications for digital twins in the BFSI, Telecom and Retail 
industries. 
Within our growth and transformation (G&T) portfolio, business 
model innovation continued to be a key theme. For example, 
for a large Fortune 500 electric gas utility, we built the service 
delivery platform central to their new business model of 
providing warranty repair, refurbishment and replacement 
services of various home appliances to households. 
Ingram Micro, one of the largest technology distributors in 
the US, engaged us as a partner to power their pivot into 
e-commerce and achieve their mission to transform from 
a traditional distributor to a platform company that does 
distribution. Tapestry Inc, a leading New York-based house 
of iconic accessories and lifestyle brands such as Coach, Kate 
Spade, & Stuart Weitzman, partnered with TCS to drive their 
omnichannel modernization and transform the customer 
journey experience.
Other G&T themes, such as M&A and sustainability continued to 
bring in high-profile deal wins and new strategic engagements 
for us in FY 2023. Elsewhere in this report, you can read about 
the work we did for Philips Domestic Appliances in its journey 
to be a standalone company, and how we helped Eversource 
Energy pursue its carbon neutrality aspirations.
Digital transformation, which began in the front office, towards 
enhancing customer experience, made further inroads within 
the enterprise during the year, unlocking tremendous value 
in the middle and back office. As critical technologies such as 
machine vision and conversational systems get better with 
the use of AI, our Machine First™ approach is helping clients 
use them innovatively in the back office, embedding them 
into reimagined processes to drive greater velocity, agility, 
throughput and resilience – which, among other things, also 
enhances customer experience.
The supplyside challenges of the last two years peaked in 
the first half of FY 2023, with employee churn reaching 
unprecedented levels. We broke out of the vicious cycle of hiring 
and counter-hiring within the industry by investing in onboarding 
an unprecedent number of fresh engineers – over 110,000 in 
FY 2022 and over 44,000 in FY 2023 – and training them on the 
technologies most in demand. 
Newer developments like generative 
AI, large language models, and 
quantum computing triggered more 
experimentation and innovation 
by our clients. Our investments in 
research and innovation across 
different industries, and our Pace 
innovation architecture have 
positioned us well to partner with 
them in these initiatives. 
Applied at scale, across a broad set of business or IT 
operations, this can result in an entirely new operating 
model that significantly boosts our clients’ competitiveness. 
As macroeconomic uncertainty increased in the second half 
of the year, we saw clients adapting by reprioritizing their 
spends and showing greater interest in such operating model 
transformations. 
TCS Cognix™, our AI-driven human machine collaboration suite, 
has been a game changer, enabling faster transformations 
that deliver concrete business benefits within months. Its 600 
pre-built configurable and reusable digital solutions enable plug 
and play transformation of a range of business and technology 
functions, horizontal and vertical. Nearly 300 of our clients have 
used it to transform their business and IT operations. 
In traditional outsourcing deals, we saw more multi-services 
integrated deals. By consolidating multiple elements of the 
operation stack – processes, applications, and the underlying 
technology and infrastructure – with a single strategic partner, 
clients not only achieve greater accountability, but also reduce 
complexity and derisk their larger business transformations. The 
same rationale is driving more vendor consolidation initiatives 
that favor a few strategic partners with end-to-end service 
offerings, the right innovation capabilities and scale.
All these trends play to our strengths. Our scale, structure, and 
ability to bring together different capabilities into a seamless 
service delivery team, helped us win several large deals 
throughout the year. 
Letter to Shareholders | 9

So long, farewell
This year marks a key milestone in my journey with TCS, and 
an important transition point for the company, as I step down 
from my role as CEO and MD on 31st May 2023. It has been an 
absolute privilege and an unparalleled learning experience to 
lead our company in the last six years, a period of tremendous 
growth and transformation for us. 
On a more personal note, I am grateful to Chandra, our 
Chairman, for his mentorship and backing over the years, to our 
Board members for their guidance, and to all our customers 
for the confidence they reposed in us. I take this opportunity 
to thank all my colleagues whose support and trust made 
my journey as CEO successful, satisfying and unforgettable. I 
also thank all my fellow TCSers whose energy, dedication and 
aspirations continue to power the organization’s success.
I have had the pleasure of interacting with some of you in 
person over the last decade. Your feedback and insights helped 
me learn and shaped my worldview. Thank you for all your 
support and encouragement. 
With enterprises relying on technology ever more to drive their 
competitive differentiation, technology intensity is rising and 
on a secular basis, the share of IT services within overall tech 
spending is also going up. I am confident that TCS’ best years are 
ahead, and I look forward to watching the company’s continued 
success from outside. 
Best Regards,
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
(For FY 2022-23)
Caring for Communities
We continued to work with communities across the world, 
pursuing our long-standing commitment to programs in the 
areas of skills development, bridging of digital divides and 
STEM education. In FY 2023, we estimate that our community 
initiatives touched the lives of over 4.5 million beneficiaries – 
women, youth and members of marginalized communities.
Our large programs in India around literacy, digital 
entrepreneurship and youth skilling continued to gain scale. 
Likewise, our STEM initiatives outside India. goIT is shaping 
the next generation of digital innovators in 42 countries, while 
Ignite my Future in School program has doubled its original 
goal, serving over 2 million students and educators in five 
geographies worldwide since inception in 2017.
Our employee volunteer program called HOPE (Hours of Purpose 
by Employees) resulted in over 2.8 million hours of volunteering 
effort towards promoting issues most relevant in their local 
communities, such as mental health, climate action, circularity, 
education, skilling, mentoring, and conservation.
On the environmental front, we continue to make good progress 
in our net zero journey. We have brought down our absolute 
carbon footprint across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 71% 
over base year 2016, meeting our target two years ahead of 
time. This was despite increased electricity consumption in FY 
2023 from employees’ return to office. In addition to enterprisewide initiatives for energy efficiency, we have also significantly 
increased our use of renewable energy. Renewable energy 
sources today make up 55% of the total (7.25% in 2016).
In FY 2023, we focused on utilizing the spare capacity built up in 
the prior year, and recalibrated our hiring especially as attrition 
started falling in the second half of the year. Our LTM attrition in 
IT services for the year was 20.1%. Net addition in FY 2023 was 
22,600, and the closing headcount was 614,795. Our workforce 
continued to be very diverse, with over 150 nationalities 
represented and with women making up 35.7% of the employee 
base. 
Our investments in organic talent development continue to 
deliver exceptional outcomes. In FY 2023, TCSers logged 
48.3 million learning hours, and acquired nearly 6 million 
competencies. Popular technologies witnessed unprecedented 
levels of interest from our employees. During the year, 53,000 
TCSers acquired certification on hyperscaler cloud skills, bringing 
the total number to over 110,000, making TCS one of the Top 2 
partners to the largest cloud providers.
Letter to Shareholders | 10

Letter from the
CEO
I am truly humbled by this opportunity to lead this remarkable 
organization that I have been part of for 34 years. The culture, 
values and ethos of TCS and the Tata group have been an 
inspiration always. Your company has a very strong leadership 
team and a workforce that is highly motivated. It is my privilege 
to lead this talented team. 
As part of the transition, I interacted with a number of our 
customers, leadership teams and employees. This has further 
enriched my understanding of the depth of our customer 
relationships, customers ‘priorities and the opportunities 
ahead of us. I see a huge potential to create positive impact for 
our clients, our employees and for the broader community of 
stakeholders that we serve.
Dear Shareholder,
As part of their continuing digital transformation journey, we see 
sustained focus on cloud adoption, data architecture, customer 
experience and business model transformation. Through 
these initiatives, our customers intend to avoid technology 
obsolescence, become an intelligent enterprise, introduce new 
products and services, orchestrate ecosystems and provide 
immersive, hyper-personalized experiences. In addition, all our 
customers have also committed to ambitious net-zero carbon 
emission targets. 
On top of these current focus areas, technologies like 5G, IoT, 
generative AI, virtual reality / metaverse, digital twin and others 
are also gaining attention and are likely to attract investments in 
the short to medium term. 
As technology adoption will remain a key driver of business 
growth and transformation for our clients, we have been 
relentlessly focussed on our clients’ needs and have been 
investing in building newer capabilities to help them accelerate 
technology adoption. Your company continues to focus on 
enhancing the talent base of its associates, building partnerships 
with key technology providers, expanding the innovation 
ecosystem and building its own products and platforms. 
These business and technology trends drove a strong deal flow 
throughout FY 2023, peaking in the fourth quarter. We closed 
the year with an order book of $34.1 Bn. This along with the 
strong pipeline replenishment gives us a good visibility for the 
medium term. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your 
continued support in this exciting journey ahead.
Best Regards,
K Krithivasan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
Letter from the CEO | 11

 TCS New York Ci
ty Marathon 
 TCS Amsterdam Marath
on TCS Toron
to Waterfront Marath
on TCS 
Lidingöloppet 
 
 
Announced a special dividend of ₹67 per share, along with 
three interim dividends of ₹8 each. This, along with the final 
dividend of ₹24, amounted to a total dividend of ₹115 per share. 
The total shareholder payout for the year was ₹42,079 crore.
Selected as a strategic partner by Bombardier, a global 
leader in aviation, to drive its organization-wide IT and digital 
transformation to enhance its agility. TCS will modernize the 
aviation leader’s legacy systems across multiple verticals, deploy 
and integrate new systems around the S/4 HANA ERP platform 
and transform the operating model using AI and ML.
The Year Gone by 
After a stellar 22-year career at TCS and 
a successful stint as Managing Director 
and CEO from 2017 to 2023, Rajesh 
Gopinathan decided to step down from 
his role, and resign from TCS effective 
September 15, 2023, to pursue other 
interests. The Board nominated 
K Krithivasan to step into the role with 
effect from June 1, 2023. 
Ranked the number one IT service provider for customer 
satisfaction in Europe in an independent survey of over 1,800 
CXOs by Whitelane Research. This is the tenth consecutive year 
that TCS has received the top ranking in this survey. Of the top 
23 IT service providers ranked on customer satisfaction, TCS 
topped the list, scoring 83%, versus the group’s average of 75%.
Announced an expansion of its long-standing partnership with 
Phoenix Group, UK’s largest long-term savings and retirements 
provider, to digitally transform the latter’s ReAssure business 
using the TCS BaNCS™ based digital platform, and to administer 
the insurer’s 3 million policies. Consolidating on TCS’ platform 
will help Phoenix Group drive synergies and enhance customer 
experience.
Named to the Forbes list of America’s Best Large Employers, 
based on a large, independent survey of US employees. TCS was 
also recognized as a Global Top Employer for the eighth year 
in a row, and as Top Employer in North America, Europe, Asia 
Pacific, and Latin America.
Rated Baa1 by Moody’s credit rating agency, reflecting 
moderate credit risk for entities in the investment grade 
category. The company’s good corporate governance practices, 
extremely strong balance sheet, large liquidity and net cash 
position were cited as key credit strengths supporting this rating.
TCS-sponsored marathons, such as the TCS New York City 
Marathon, TCS Amsterdam Marathon, TCS Toronto Waterfront 
Marathon and TCS Lidingöloppet returned to the streets, much 
to the delight of runners and spectators alike. The company also 
took on the title sponsorship of the TCS London Marathon.
Named to FORTUNE® magazine’s list of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies, regarded as a barometer 
of corporate reputation. Evaluation criteria include 
innovation, social responsibility, quality of management, 
global competitiveness, talent management, and quality 
of products/services.
The Year Gone by | 12

consumer and agent experience.
Launched the TCS Quantum Computing Lab on AWS to help 
enterprises explore, develop, and test business solutions 
and accelerate the adoption of quantum computing, 
considered one of the most promising technologies of 
the decade. TCS will leverage the virtual research and 
development environment to design industry-leading 
solutions, build domain-centric performance benchmarks, 
and work with clients to co-create new use cases of quantum 
computing to tackle business challenges that defy the 
capabilities of conventional technologies.
Chosen by Rail Delivery Group, UK’s leading rail industry 
membership body, for the creation of a Rail Data Marketplace. 
TCS will leverage the data syndication, monetization and 
marketplace features of its DeXAM platform on a leading 
hyperscaler platform to combine fragmented sources of rail data 
forming one digital service. This will optimize the sharing of data 
and real-time information to passengers and operational bodies, 
improve transparency and enable a UK-wide railway innovation 
ecosystem.
Enhanced its award-winning Quartz™ solution to enable central 
and commercial banks to support the entire lifecycle of Central 
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) issuance, book-keeping and 
transactions. With the enhanced solution, central banks will be 
able to manage the issuance and distribution of CBDCs while 
commercial banks can transact with other banks and payment 
services providers using CBDCs as well as offer their customers 
the ability to hold CBDC balances.
Partnered with BT Group, UK’s leading provider of fixed and 
mobile telecommunications, for its Digital Unit to boost its 
modernization plans. TCS will manage and ramp down over 70% 
of Digital’s legacy technology estate and boost its capacity to 
accelerate the build of its new strategic technology architecture, 
supporting the Group’s growth.
Won the 2022 Microsoft Supplier of the Year award in the large 
supplier category. TCS was recognized for consistently delivering 
new capabilities with automation solutions that help improve 
accuracy for Microsoft, while also increasing its speed to market. 
TCS was cited for its expertise across industries that enables 
Microsoft to better serve customers, showcasing what it means 
to focus on strategy, impact, agility, and modernization.
Tata Group Chairperson and TCS Chairman, N Chandrasekaran, 
was bestowed with the Eisenhower Global Leadership Award 
for his contribution to commerce, by the non-profit, Business 
Council for International Understanding. Hans Vestberg, the 
Chairman and CEO of Verizon, presented N Chandrasekaran 
with the award and described him as “one of the most 
purpose-driven and influential leaders of our time”.
Selected by Sainsbury’s, a leading supermarket retailer in UK, 
as its transformation partner to modernize its infrastructure 
landscape using TCS Enterprise Cloud™. Additionally, TCS will 
provide end-to-end managed services for application support, 
information security, modern workplace services, and network 
connectivity. The new flexible and scalable digital core will 
help Sainsbury’s provide better value to customers through 
innovation and lower cost to serve; drive growth with data-led, 
machine-first core operations; and meet its net zero goals.
Selected by AGL, Australia’s largest energy provider, as the 
partner for the Retail Next Program, which lays the foundation 
for their strategic business transformation into a multi-service 
retailer. The program aims to create a new unified platform for 
CRM, product catalogue and process automation. TCS brings 
together cross-industry expertise like service bundling and retail 
customer analytics, in addition to deep knowledge of utilities 
which will help AGL enhance its speed to market, and transform 
Announced a major applied 
engineering and research 
partnership with The National 
Robotarium, the UK’s largest and 
most advanced AI and robotics 
research center. The partnership 
will work on innovation, to support 
early-stage AI and robotics product 
development, entrepreneurship, 
job creation and building digital 
skills in the workforce.
Delegates from The National Robotarium and TCS announce a major research partnership
The Year Gone by | 13

Partnered with C&S Wholesale 
Grocers, Inc., to build a new cloudbased operations platform to reduce 
the company’s carbon footprint and 
enhance the customer experience. 
Using AI and machine learning, C&S’s new 
operations platform will monitor traffic patterns 
 and identify optimal distribution routes, thereby 
reducing food waste and achieving greater fuel efficiency. 
Launched the TCS Mobility Cloud Suite, a rich toolbox of 
cloud-enabled software to help automotive manufacturers and 
suppliers innovate, adapt, and thrive. It includes ready-to-deploy 
automotive-specific digital frameworks, custom solutions, 
accelerators, and use cases that enable automakers and their 
solution providers to embrace digital technologies and new 
business models across the entire mobility value chain.
Boots, a leading UK health and beauty retailer, announced the 
launch of the new INNOVATE workspace, powered by TCS 
Pace™, at its headquarters in Nottingham, UK. INNOVATE aims 
to nurture a start-up culture within the organization and is 
designed to be an agile incubator, combining creative space with 
top talent and emerging technology, to drive innovation.
Launched its ESG Integration Solution on AWS to help financial 
institutions more easily and accurately measure the impact of 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in their 
investment analysis. With a cloud-native ESG data ingestion 
platform and proprietary ESG scoring model, the solution 
is integrated with AWS Data Exchange, and enables greater 
transparency and flexibility in measuring investment portfolios 
against ESG criteria and benchmarks.
Former CFO, V Ramakrishnan (“Ramki”) passed away in July 
2022. He served as the CFO of TCS from February 2017 until his 
retirement in April 2021. He was ranked Best CFO in the All-Asia 
Executive Team survey by Institutional Investors magazine. He 
was an accomplished professional known for his tremendous 
dedication and commitment, with an association of over four 
decades with TCS and the Tata Group.
Was the only Indian brand in the Top 50 
in the 2022 Kantar BrandZ Top 100 Most 
Valuable Global Brands. TCS was also 
named among the Top 10 fastest growing 
brands with its brand value growing 61% YoY 
(as measured by Kantar). Later in the year, 
the company was ranked the second most 
valuable IT services brand (brand value up 2% 
to US$17.2 billion) by Brand Finance.
Ranked #2 in CRN’s 2022 Solution Provider 500 list that 
ranks the top system integrators, IT services providers and 
IT consultants by revenue in North America. In the UK, TCS 
retained its #1 position by revenue across the entire technology 
ecosystem including hyperscalers, software vendors and IT/ITe 
service providers in the 2022 TechMarketView UK Software 
and IT Services Supplier Rankings report.
Launched TCS Pace Port™ Pittsburgh, its fourth global research 
and co-innovation hub after Tokyo, New York and Amsterdam. 
The latest facility, in the Carnegie Mellon University campus, 
specializes in innovation in the manufacturing and utilities 
sectors. Later in the year, TCS launched its fifth Pace Port in 
Toronto.
Selected by The Kansas Department of Labor to deploy 
a modern, secure, cloud-based platform for the state’s 
unemployment insurance program, replacing its 70s-era 
mainframe system. Once deployed, the new system is expected 
to drastically improve the delivery of services to Kansas 
residents. The TCS-built platform is currently used by the state 
labor departments in Connecticut, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, 
and Wyoming, and is under implementation at a couple of other 
states.
Named by FinanceAsia in its list of Asia’s Best Companies 
2022, as the Best Managed Company in India, as well as Most 
Effective in Creating and Implementing D&I Policies over the 
past 12 months. The list is based on their annual poll of investors 
and analysts in the region.
V RAMAKRISHNAN 
(1957 - 2022)
FORMER CFO, TCS
The Year Gone by | 14

Sales, Project
 Management, Delivery, 
Quality Management
CUSTOMER
ENGAGEMENT
Partners 
Technology and 
Co-Innovation Network (COIN)
Talent Acquisition
Talent Engagement
Talent Development
Research & Innovation
Products & Platforms
Services & Solutions
Natural Capital
Renewable and 
Non-renewable Resources
Intellectual Capital
Domain knowledge 
Contextual knowledge
Intellectual Property
Human Capital
Social Capital 
Investors, Customers, 
Employees, Communities 
Goodwill
Customer
Goodwill/Brand
Value/CSR/Taxes
Stakeholder
Payout, Reserves
VALUE
Sources of funds from 
business operations, 
financing or investing 
activities
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
Skills, competencies, 
capabilities, knowledge and 
motivation of employees
Contextual
Knowledge
OPERATIONS
TCS Integrated Business Model
Value Creation using the Five Capitals
TCS Integrated Business Model | 15

TCS’ longevity is testimony to the strength of our business 
model and our ability to reinvent ourselves in an ever-evolving 
technology landscape to stay relevant to our customers while 
remaining focused on creating value for all our stakeholders.
Best in class profitability and strong balance sheet provide 
greater ability to invest in newer capabilities and to weather 
economic dowturns, macro uncertainties
Consistently high shareholder returns enhances social capital
Outcomes
₹2,500 cr
+11.5%
₹127,522 cr
+18.6%
Employee cost
₹866 cr
+1.3%
Community Investments
₹14,604 cr
+10.3%
Tax expense
₹42,079 cr
+10.7%
Shareholder payout including 
unpaid ﬁnal dividend
R&D and innovation including
innovation center development
₹43,699 cr
+22.2%
Other cost of operations
₹225,458 cr
Economic
value generated1
+ 17.6%
1 GRI 201-1
Financial Capital
Financial Capital | 16

146,463
156,949
164,177
191,754
225,458

(₹ crore)
(₹ crore)






2021*




2021*


37,450
25.6%
24.6%
25.9%
25.3%
24.1%
38,580
42,481
48,453
54,237
92.6% 98.6%
101.5% 99.2%
99.8%
13,148
16,000
14,055
17,840
14,147
19,726
15,818
Revenue Trend
CAGR 12.9%
Operating Proﬁt Trend
Cash Usage#
Shareholder Payouts
Operating Proﬁt
# Cash usage for the period
FY 2019 to FY 2023
# includes proposed ﬁnal dividend
*Excluding provision towards legal claim
Dividend
Special Dividend
Buyback including tax
Shareholder Payout ratio (Including special dividend
and buyback, including tax)
1.0%
7.6%
0.2%
91.2%
Invested Funds
Acquisitions etc
Capex
Shareholder Distribution
28,593
90.9%
100.1%
116.2% 104.2%
99.6%
32,369
38,802
39,949
41,965
(₹ crore)
(₹ crore)


2021*


OCF and Cash Conversion
Operating Cash Flow (OCF)
OCF to Net Proﬁt Ratio
Operating Margin


2021*


83.05
86.19
89.27
103.62
115.19
Earnings per share
CAGR 11.4%
(Amount in ₹)
24,516
17,563#
22,192
Financial Capital | 17

Best in class, despite unprecedented 
employee churn across the industry; expected 
to revert to normal range in FY 2024.
Workforce
Globally distributed,
highly localized
614,795
Employees
22,600
Employees
20.1%
LTM
attrition in IT
services
Net Addition
Recalibrated to falling 
attrition; highest ever gross 
addition of lateral hires 
Talent Retention
Talent Diversity and Inclusion
3 Generations
88% Millennials
~220,000+ Women
35.7% of workforce
60%+ Increase in senior women 
 executives over last 5 years
794 Women patent holders

Nationalities
Human Capital1
Best in Class Talent Management
TCS Employees by Region, Age and Gender
Rising up the ranks
% Women improved at mid- and senior
levels over last 5 years
Junior
43.6%
41.8%
Middle
30.7%
29.5%
Senior
12.0%
13.3%
FY 2019
FY 2023
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
22.6%
30.3%
11.7%
25.6%
1.5%
7.2%
0.2%
0.9%
India
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
5.3%
11.7%
12.3%
20.5%
7.1%
21.3%
5.5%
16.3%
North America
9.8%
9.4%
10.4%
<30
yrs
15.8%
17.4%
10.1%
11.8%
15.3%
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
United Kingdom
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
Europe
6.5%
10.0%
13.3%
20.9%
6.6%
17.2%
5.6%
19.9%
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
11.2%
22.7%
13.2%
27.9%
5.2%
12.2%
1.9%
5.7%
Emerging Markets 
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
12.1%
12.7%
20.6%
24.6%
6.8%
14.7%
2.0%
6.5%
APAC
Male
Female
1 GRI 401-1, GRI 405-1
Human Capital | 18

TCS takes a purpose-centric approach to learning and 
development that leverages horizontal collaboration
and the abundance of internal expertise. Catering to 
millennial tastes, training is just-in-time, just-for-me 
and just-enough.
Competencies 
acquired

million
Employees 
deep skilled
194,000
Talent Development 
Average Learning Hours 
per employee2 82.4 hrs
Senior
Middle
Junior

Male
Female
Contextual Masters
64,000 CMs, +28% YoY
110K in all
26% Women
Cloud Certiﬁcation
53K certiﬁed on hyperscaler 
cloud technologies in FY 2023; 
22,000
Employees identiﬁed 
as high talent, with 
higher pay
500,000 employees trained 
in digital technologies; 
7.5 competencies per 
employee on average
Mid-level Training
90% participation; 
60% certiﬁed on market 
relevant technologies
TCS Elevate 
407K employees 
pursued learning linked 
to career growth
2 GRI 404-1
Human Capital | 19

Focus Areas of TCS’ R&I: 
Highlights
Physical Sciences
Behavioural and Business Sciences
Life Sciences
Computing / Data Sciences
Intellectual Capital
The company channelizes its research and innovation 
eﬀorts and outcomes towards building better futures 
through two external facing brands:
TCS Research produces foundational inventions that 
impact industry and society.
TCS PaceTM brings the best of TCS’ intellectual content, 
innovation assets, capabilities, and practices to clients.
High Performance Computing and AI
Multicloud deployments
Cyber Cloud - Data Residency, Compliance, 
Security - Resilience on Cloud
Low Energy Hardware, Low Energy High 
Performance Computing 
Edge Hardware for Compute and Communication
Quantum Communications
Robo Logistics
Learning Aided Adaptive Software
Digital Transformation for Applications
AI in Software Development Lifecycle and Data 
Analytics 
AI for Cybersecurity
Privacy preserving Service Operations, Privacy 
preserving Biometrics, Trustworthy AI 
Remote Sensing Spacetech for Sustainability and 
Infrastructure 
Energy Internet and Carbon Market
Sustainability in Manufacturing, Carbon Capture, 
NetZero Transition and Renewables
Meta Materials for Communications
New Materials Formulation
Li-ion Batteries
Catalysis
Effluent Treatment 
Emotional Wellbeing for Enterprise 
Consumer Behavior in Retail
Gamified Engagement and Learning 
Understanding Personae in Connected Homes
Generative Design in:
Drug (including vaccines and proteins) design and 
synthesis
Molecules, Formulations and Manufacturing 
Processes
5,500+
researchers, 
and innovators
2,878/7,305
patents granted/ 
ﬁled (cumulative)
260+
publications
40+
Research and 
Innovation 
Centers
80+
Academic 
Partners
5 Pace Ports
2,700+
start-up
partners
New York | 
Toronto |Tokyo|
Amsterdam | 
Pittsburgh 
Purposeful AI
Computing Futures
Digital Sciences
Sustainability
Intellectual Capital | 20

Products and Platforms
10 new wins and 15 go-lives in FY 2023
Highlights:
Services more than 35% of the world’s banking 
population
8 out of top 10 custodian and asset management firms 
run on TCS BaNCS
More than 100 million transactions run on TCS 
BaNCS Cloud daily
Records 10 million new trades per day (peak) across 
100+ countries
Offers ready market connectivity to 45+ local 
markets for settlements
Services over 30 million life, annuity and pension 
policies and 135 million property and casualty 
policies across the globe
AI powered enterprise digital twin covering customer, 
product and process to help business leaders simulate 
and optimize enterprise decisions, predict and proactively 
manage outcomes
Helps businesses achieve: 
Upto 10-15% increase in revenue
Reduced revenue leakage
Upto 2X faster time to market
Upto 15% reduction in cycle time
Enhanced customer experience
Minimized waste
10 new wins and 7 go-lives in FY 2023
AI powered unified commerce platform to orchestrate 
unified omnichannel customer journeys and help 
businesses roll out new services and apps quickly without 
worrying about channel constraints. It can serve diverse 
lines of business – general merchandise, discount, 
specialty, fashion, restaurant, post office, telecom, and 
travel and hospitality industries
8 go-lives in FY 2023
Digital platform to optimally automate and manage IT 
processes. FY 2023 highlights:
Processed 325 billion records for data privacy and 15 
billion records for data quality
Automated generation of 60+ million lines of Java 
and JavaScript code, with over 50% productivity 
gains
Analyzed 600 million lines of legacy code, delivering 
a productivity improvement of 20-30%
111 new wins in FY 2023
SaaS-based, scalable Agile DevOps platform to accelerate 
software development and delivery and integrate DevOps 
tools
23 new wins and 6 go-lives in FY 2023
Intelligent smart contract development toolkits, 
Integration solutions and ‘Designed for DLT’ business 
solutions that provides foundational technology, tools 
and business components for creating distributed ledger 
solutions across varied industries
5 new wins and 6 go-lives in FY 2023
World leading cognitive automation software for IT and 
business operations
18,832 ignio trained professionals, 8,664 ignio certified 
professionals till date
186+ deals closed, 27 new customers went live in FY 2023
450+ new wins in FY 2023
62 million candidates assessed
70+ new learning programs launched
16 patents filed in FY 2023; 23 granted
Over 1,900 corporates now use TCS NQT for fresher hiring
Comprehensive suite for digital transformation of drug 
development and clinical trials
700+ clinical trials supported by TCS ADD Platforms till 
date.
2 new wins and 4 go-lives in FY 2023
Plug and play SaaS based business platform to digitally 
transform business, network and revenue management 
domains of subscription-based businesses
5 new wins and 6 go-lives in FY 2023
AI and ML powered merchandise optimization platform 
that enables retailers to optimize their space, mix and 
price in an integrated manner
2 new wins and 4 go-lives in FY 2023
MasterCraft
ADD
Intellectual Capital | 21

13.5
14.9
16.8
17.2
12.8





Social Capital
TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted in deep and 
enduring customer relationships, a vibrant and engaged 
workforce, a steady expansion of its addressable market, a 
strong reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and a proven 
track record in delivering longer term stakeholder value. All of 
this has signiﬁcantly enhanced the company’s brand value, which 
is a quantiﬁable measure of its social capital with stakeholders.
TCS is seen as a benchmark in its outreach to investors, its 
transparency and disclosures, and communication of its longerterm strategy. For the last many years, its Investor Relations 
program has been winning awards based on surveys of investors 
and analysts across Asia.
TCS has a robust engagement program with research firms and 
industry analysts. Briefing industry analysts and participating 
in competitive assessments ensures visibility with prospective 
clients who use such reports to evaluate vendors.
The strength of its customer relationships, reputation as a 
good employer, and the goodwill it enjoys with investors, local 
communities, academia and other stakeholders have helped 
build up the TCS brand. The brand has been strengthened by its 
tagline `Building on Belief’, marketing campaigns and sponsored 
events. TCS is among the Top 2 brands in IT services by brand 
value according to Brand Finance.
Source: Brand Finance
( $ billion )
Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ business strategy. It 
seeks to deliver superior outcomes, and build strong, enduring 
relationships. By proactively investing in building newer 
capabilities, and launching new services and solutions with 
which to add value in newer parts of the client’s business, TCS 
continually expands and deepens its client relationships.
Customers
Investors
Analyst Relations
Branding
TCS Brand Valuation
Large Client Metrics
Assessment in which TCS 
was ranked a Leader by 
Research Firms
Rev per US$ 1 Million+ Client 
($ Mn)
Expanding participation across broad range of stakeholders 
across the enterprise including business heads, CMOs, CROs, 
COOs, CFOs and even CEOs 
Continual expansion of customer relationships in terms of 
services consumed 
Highly satisﬁed customers
Outcomes
2021/22 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
2020/21 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
2014 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
Growth 8.2%
20.8
22.5
US$ 20Mn+
US$ 50Mn+
US$ 100Mn+







meetings*

hours
* includes multiple investors in group meetings
Social Capital | 22

Community1
Our CSR programs on Education, Employment and Entrepreneurship ensured the
inclusion of marginalized talent through social transformation
Ignite My Future
Global Impact 
Over 293K students
goIT
Global Impact 
Over 41K students
Literacy as a Service
Global Impact
Over 1.1 Mn 
learners
31K Marginalized 
Youth trained
57% Women
Tata Medical 
Center, Kolkata and 
Cancer Institute, 
Chennai 
Enhancement in income 
for women who complete 
YEP and get employment 
in comparison to a female 
employee in a rural areas
Higher earnings for women 
BridgeIT participants 
compared to other selfemployed in rural India
Students who completed 
goIT demonstrated 
understanding of how 
technology can be used to 
improve their community
LaaS Program participants 
encouraged their own 
children especially girls to 
go to schools
Over 117,600 
new patient 
consultations
Engaged over 433 
customers, creating 
186 purpose 
partnerships
Education
Literacy
Entrepreneurship
Youth employment
program
Health &
Wellness
Business with 
purpose
BridgeIT
Providing valuable 
digital services to 
rural India
347 active 
entrepreneurs in 
FY 2023
2.3x
2.5x
88%
81%
₹866 crore CSR Spend
4.5 million beneficiaries
150K+ volunteers
2.8 million hours
7 major partnerships for program 
implementation at scale
1 GRI 413-1
Social Capital | 23

Achievements
Outcomes
TCS combines its strong sense of purpose with digital 
expertise and innovation to drive not only its own 
sustainability journey, but also that of its customers.
The company’s environmental stewardship rests on four 
pillars: carbon footprint mitigation, water conservation and 
recycling, waste reduction and recycling, and preserving 
biodiversity.
Reduced
Energy
Consumption
and…
29%
… reduced TCS’
Carbon footprint.
71%
45%
…Increased
Use of
Renewable
Energy..
12x
Total Energy
Consumed
in GWh
Total Scope
1 + 2
emissions in 
‘000 tCO2e
Value chain 
emissions 
in '000 tCO2e
Renewable
Energy 
Consumed 
in GWh

18.6









37.2%
Renewable electricity 
(112 GWh in 
FY2022) as % of 
total electricity 
consumed
64.4%
1.65
PUE
% Total oﬃce space 
(for India) as per 
IGBC standards
Energy eﬃciency 
initiatives at TCS data 
centers in Mumbai 
and Chennai
10.2
Rooftop solar 
capacity across 
campuses
Target: 70% reduction of Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 
(vs base year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030
85% of emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 due to 
purchased electricity for oﬃce blocks.
Prioritized energy optimization and greater use of 
renewable energy.
Use of Clever Energy to optimize energy consumption, 
green buildings, green IT.
Initiatives: 
Energy Management and GHG Emissions Reduction 1 
55.2%
Renewable energy
as % of total energy 
consumed
64.6%
% Total oﬃce space 
(for India) as per 
IGBC standards
1.66
PUE
Energy eﬃciency 
initiatives at TCS data 
centers
10.2
MWp
Rooftop solar 
capacity across 
campuses
Natural Capital
1 TCFD Metrics and Targets A, B and C
Natural Capital | 24

Target: 3% YoY reduction in freshwater consumption across 
owned campuses
TCS believes in preserving and enriching the biodiversity within 
its campuses. Various initiatives have helped support
 593 species of ﬂora 
 187 species of fauna 
 39,000 well grown trees. 
Initiatives include conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, rainwater 
harvesting (RWH) and employee awareness. All new campuses have 
been designed for 50% higher water eﬃciency, 100% treatment and 
recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
Water Conservation
Target: Reduction in waste generation, 
maximizing recycling/ reuse to divert waste 
sent to landﬁll
Waste Reduction & Reuse
Recycling of regulated wastes, 
e-waste, printer cartridges, paper, 
packaging and plastics
100%
Food wastes recycled in 
biodigesters and organic waste 
converters on campuses
88.4%
Conservation and enhancement initiatives within TCS campuses. 
Biodiversity 
2.29 Bn
Liters of fresh water 
consumed in FY 2023
2.5%
Water from RWH; 90 % from third party 
sources; 7.6% from ground water
88%
Water recycled
(TCS owned campuses)
36%
Increased water consumption YoY at 
owned campuses due to 5 times increase 
in headcount
Natural Capital | 25

Helping Versuni become a Digital-First, Innovation-Led Standalone Entity
Growth and transformation are often constrained by the 
challenge of integrating with the legacy operations stack, and 
the complexity that entails. So when health-tech giant Royal 
Philips sold Philips Domestic Appliances in 2021 to Hillhouse, 
a private equity firm, the standalone company, rebranded as 
Versuni, saw the separation as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity 
to wipe the slate clean and transform into a digitally lean, agile, 
and innovation-led organization. 
Versuni partnered with TCS in its transformation journey from 
strategy through execution, with a vision to embed insights and 
agility into core processes, enabling shorter time to value and 
quicker responses to market changes through a new cloud-first 
application landscape. The program entailed decoupling the 
company from the parent’s systems, while simultaneously 
transforming it across all business domains, within an ambitious 
2-year timeframe.
The business transformation, enabled by SAP as the digital core, 
establishes best practices-based processes from the consumer 
products industry and simplified ways of working to drive speed, 
agility and insights-led decision-making.
TCS enabled Versuni’s strategies for driving revenue growth 
opportunities and innovative product launches. The new 
processes support Versuni’s journey to develop products made 
with more sustainable materials, that are easier to repair, 
refurbish, recycle, and help to reduce waste. 
Enhancements were made to deliver superior business 
outcomes across every function. Integrating supply chain 
planning with factory scheduling will enable higher warehouse 
productivity and more timely shipments. AI-powered insights 
in finance will help improve cash flow, free up cash and drive 
efficiencies in back-office functions. The new people processes 
will provide a better employee experience and enable a more 
responsive HR function.
Partnering with TCS helped Versuni deploy a new digital 
foundation and operate as an independent entity. The new fitfor-purpose stack enables Versuni to more effectively respond 
to the fast-changing demands of the consumer products market, 
and pursue its vision of turning houses into homes, and building 
lifetime engagement with consumers. 
I am really happy to have partnered with TCS in this 
journey. TCS has been an invaluable partner in our 
process and digital transformation journey with SAP as 
the main enabling technology suite. The hard work and 
dedication demonstrated by each member of the TCS 
team has not gone unnoticed. The leadership advisory 
services and commitment combined with the team’s 
domain and technology expertise is helping us get to our 
goals as an insights-led digital company.
Corine Adams 
CIO, Versuni
TCS’ exceptional leadership, expertise, and flexibility 
combined with their passion and thorough 
understanding of our mission to become insights-led, 
makes them an outstanding partner. The TCS leadership 
team has been with us every step of the way. This 
transformation will help us continue to innovate and to 
stay true to our mission to turn houses into homes.
Henk S. de Jong 
CEO, Versuni
Customer Stories | 26

Enabling Eversource Energy’s 
Transition to a Green 
Energy Future
Energy utilities are leading the world’s energy transition, 
investing in renewable energy sources as part of their journey 
to carbon neutrality. Leaders in the sector are using technology 
innovatively to draw environmentally conscious consumers 
looking for greener choices, and grow their new clean energy 
businesses. 
Eversource Energy is a Fortune 500 energy company that 
operates New England’s largest energy delivery system, with 
4.4 million customers across Connecticut (CT), Massachusetts 
(MA) and New Hampshire. It is focused on making its 
operations carbon neutral by 2030, and bringing more 
clean and affordable energy to New England.
Eversource partnered with TCS to build a solution that 
would help them on-board distributed solar power 
capacity within its grid by purchasing power 
from residential, industrial and commercial 
customers who install solar panels and 
storage on their properties, and enabling 
them to avail of incentives offered by their 
respective states, as part of state-level Net 
Zero programs. 
The TCS-built solution includes onboarding 
of new solar customers, a customer 
application that helps keep track of the units 
generated, and a pricing engine that uses a 
declining block pricing mechanism to 
incentivize early enrolment as a producer. It 
also includes a billing system that processes 
recovery charges, solar credits and incentive 
payments, and enables flexible payment 
options as well as hardship relief options to 
improve affordability and increase adoption of 
energy efficiency programs.
To facilitate quick roll outs across states, TCS 
architected a reusable framework that would 
simplify adoption of each state’s incentive program 
into Eversource’s core platform, enabling the utility to 
pursue a very aggressive implementation schedule for 
each state.
Using this solution, Eversource has been able to leverage 
state incentives to make green energy affordable and rapidly 
benefit nearly 430,000 customers in CT and MA so far, while 
driving growth of its clean energy business. At the same time, 
it is projected to produce over 9,700 MWh of solar power, 
accelerating not only its own journey to carbon neutrality but 
also that of the states it services. 
Making green energy affordable is central to our business 
strategy. Its technology enablement was a fairly complex 
program with multiple sub-programs running concurrently. 
TCS did an outstanding job in collaborating well with multiple 
stakeholders and managing risks very well. The TCS team’s 
contextual knowledge of the Eversource business and 
technology landscape resulted in a high quality solution that 
helped meet the regulatory mandate as well as Eversource’s 
clean energy and energy affordability goals.
David Coco 
Director, IT Business Solutions 
Eversource Energy
Customer Stories | 27

A Fireside Chat 
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: 
CTO
K Ananth Krishnan
Harrick Vin
CTO Designate
KAK: With all the geo-political tension and economic uncertainty 
in today’s world, companies need to respond quickly to events 
on the ground and cope with surprises, while staying focused on 
fulfilling customer needs and wants, with innovative products 
and services.
TCS helps them on both these fronts. We help build a futureready, digital core that enables quick, insights-driven decision 
making. We transform IT and business operating models using 
technology, making them more efficient, agile and responsive, 
freeing up resources to support innovation. Partnering with us 
enables our clients to try out a larger number of innovative ideas 
quickly, and launch new products, services and business models 
to drive growth and transformation.
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive refers to how our scale, full services 
capability and innovation offerings enable our clients to respond 
to short-term challenges while accelerating their pursuit of 
longer-term aspirations.
KAK: We see interest in exploring use cases right across the 
enterprise. The most obvious areas are conversational systems, 
content creation and digital marketing, and activities which 
HV: People often relate innovations to serendipitous discoveries. 
We help clients structure and scale the innovation process using 
the TCS Agile Innovation Cloud (AIC). This framework brings 
together the best of TCS’ talent, research and innovation inputs, 
global capabilities and ecosystem partnerships to scale up and 
speed up ‘Ideas to Outcomes’.
For an insurance major, we worked with the client’s teams 
and collated actionable innovation ideas through a series of 
brainstorming workshops using the Clay Map. Leveraging our 
AIC, we rapidly built POCs every quarter, some of which got 
turned into MVPs and rolled out across the enterprise. In just 
eight months, dozens of innovation ideas were identified, and 24 
progressed to become MVPs. 
One reason for this high yield is that our teams leverage their 
contextual knowledge, learned over years spent immersed in the 
client’s IT and business landscape, to come up with ideas deeply 
rooted in that organization’s reality and therefore more likely to 
succeed. 
How does TCS help clients innovate, adapt and thrive?
Generative AI is the talk of the season. What is the business 
opportunity around it? 
Innovation is about having a lightbulb moment. How do you 
scale that?
KAK: Software that writes software has been around for a 
long time. In fact, this is the 50th anniversary of TCS’ very first 
offshore development project, delivered using an in-house 
code generator. In the 80s, our TRDDC was famous for its 
tools foundry, which could generate custom code translators 
on demand, converting source code from any programming 
language to any other language.
TCS MasterCraft™ is today used by hundreds of our clients 
for developing, transforming and maintaining model-based 
applications. In fact, our award-winning product suite, TCS 
BaNCS™, is written and maintained using MasterCraft. Even 
though there is effort involved in defining the model up-front, 
clients see significant productivity benefits. 
The new low code, no code platforms have done away even 
with those overheads. Their graphical drag and drop user 
interface empowers people with no coding knowledge to build 
sophisticated applications very quickly. 
And yet, none of this has led to any demand compression. It has 
only led to more growth. We believe generative AI will be no 
different. Like prior breakthrough technologies, it will sharply 
bring down the effort per function point, driving up programmer 
productivity immensely. This will result in greater consumption, 
with volume growth more than making up for the effort 
deflation.
If generative AI takes over coding, won’t the IT services 
industry become redundant?
require processing of large amounts of unstructured data, text, 
images and higher-level abstraction. 
Legal and procurement teams can use it to trawl through 
contracts to identify specific clauses, or prepare a summary of 
variations of a particular clause. HR could use it for handling 
employee queries. Sales and customer service want smart 
assistants that can explain product features and answer 
questions. In IT, generative AI can create basic code snippets or 
quality check developed code for adherence to standards.
These are just the initial ideas based on the standalone 
capabilities of generative AI. Over time, you will see newer use 
cases that are more combinatorial, driving greater spending by 
enterprises and expanding the opportunity significantly.
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat | 28

KAK: We have been leaders for a while, but perceptions can 
be too rooted in historic stereotypes to recognize the change. 
Back in 2008, when the term SaaS was still new, we had built a 
subscription-based, single instance, multi-tenant core banking 
platform using TCS BaNCS for small banks in India. A similar 
model is powering start-up banks in Israel today. The insurance 
HV: The evidence is empirical. Every new generation of 
technology has led to reduction in programming effort per 
function point. But while that has steadily fallen, aggregate 
spending on IT services has only risen year after year, over 
decades.
Take for example, the switch from assembly language to C. 
Its compilers came with large, extensible libraries of reusable 
pre-defined procedures. A developer could invoke a procedure 
with one line of code in C and embed its entire logic in the code 
base, without actually coding all of it from scratch. Three lines 
of C accomplished what took 30 lines in assembly language. The 
10x effort deflation didn’t result in mass layoffs of programmers. 
Instead, there was an explosion in software development 
because the same IT team could now build ten times as many 
function points. 
Similarly, enterprises adopted offshore outsourcing, it led to a 
big cost deflation, but nobody’s IT budgets deflated. Instead, 
those savings went into building new systems and volumes rose 
to fill budgets and spending on IT services has only expanded. 
Likewise with low-code, no-code platforms.
Why is that so? Farm mechanization caused effort 
deflation and rendered the agricultural workforce 
redundant in the West.
Indian IT companies are seen as fast followers on new 
technologies. Will that change with generative AI?
What is the evidence for this thesis?
KAK: With most goods and services, when the price falls, any 
increase in volume is limited by how much of that good or 
service the market can consume in a defined period. When farm 
mechanization reduced the cost of tilling, the increased demand 
for men in tractors was not large enough to compensate for the 
effort deflation because there was only so much land available 
to till. 
Demand for IT services behaves differently. In every enterprise, 
there is significant unmet demand. Every CIO has limited 
capacity for new system development, resulting in a requirement 
backlog that never gets fulfilled. Technologies like generative 
AI or low code-no code can help a CIO expand capacity and 
accomplish much more with the same budget. But even then, 
the backlog never goes away because there is no limit on 
business users’ ingenuity or competitive drive. Demand just rises 
to fill the incremental capacity created by new technologies. 
HV: The emergence of new technologies triggers more ideas, 
experimentation and more demand for our services. To that 
extent, business application of generative AI, along with other 
technologies, will itself drive the incremental demand that fills 
up the capacity it frees up through higher productivity.
platform launched in 2009, with shared services bundled in, 
went on to make us the market leader in life and pensions 
administration in the UK. 
Historically, gaining leadership in IT services on any new 
technology required just training sufficient numbers of 
people in that technology, ahead of market demand. In the 
last decade, we not only did that at scale on the entire class 
of digital technologies, but also invested in higher order 
capabilities so we could advise our clients on how best to 
harness the combinatorial power of new technologies in their 
specific business context. 
We scaled up our Research and Innovation, exploring use cases 
across different industries, creating solutions and showcasing 
them at our innovation centers. We expanded COIN, created 
new innovation frameworks and set up Pace Ports, our 
co-innovation hubs, across the world. Today, we not only 
have a large number of patents, but also the largest portfolio 
of products and platforms in our peer set, helping win large 
transformational engagements that uniquely distinguish us.
We are helping clients explore and develop end-to-end 
scenarios in combining technologies like quantum computing, 
generative AI, 5G and the emerging 6G, and new concepts in 
cyber security. Here in India, we have stitched together a fully 
indigenous network stack for 4G and 5G, a unique achievement 
that differentiates us from our global peers. 
Elsewhere, we are pursuing 5G-enabled opportunities in 
operational technologies such as autonomous machines and 
remote operations. We are looking at emerging cross-industry 
ecosystem business models in sustainability and energy 
transition, which will be the big drivers of growth in the coming 
years. 
HV: On the cloud, the biggest technology trend in recent years, 
we were one of the earliest to set up dedicated business units 
for each of the three leading hyperscaler clouds. Our early 
investments in building deep expertise and a large portfolio 
of innovative cloud-native solutions helped us capture 
tremendous growth and gain share. 
We are today one of the largest partners – in some cases, 
the largest partner – to each of those providers, in terms of 
number of employees with certifications, volumes of workloads 
migrated to the cloud and in number of solutions and 
intellectual property on their platforms. 
We are the launch partner for their latest offerings, whether it 
is AWS’ Mainframe Modernization, Finspace, and IoT Fleetwise 
offerings, or Azure’s Sustainability, Supply Chain Platform, 
and Financial Services and Retail Industry Cloud, and now 
for Google Cloud’s Generative AI solutions. If all this isn’t 
leadership, what is?
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat | 29

Revolutionizing Small Value Payments in South Africa
BankservAfrica, Africa’s leading automated clearing house, 
has been facilitating payments in South Africa and the region, 
for over five decades through its seamless interbank clearing 
and settlement services. It has a track record of pioneering 
innovations like the SASWITCH, a national network of 
interoperable ATMs, in the mid-80s. 
When the South African Reserve Bank unveiled its Vision 
2025 strategy to reform the South African national payment 
system framework, BankservAfrica took the lead along with its 
ecosystem partners, and engaged TCS to build a new platform 
for rapid payments that would usher in the era of modern, 
cost-effective, instant digital payments on the continent.
TCS designed a high availability, containerized, cloud optimized 
solution with TCS BaNCS for Market Infrastructure at its core, 
using high performance microservices for clearing and payment. 
Hosted on a public cloud, the solution is very resilient and can 
auto-scale. 
On the front-end, users can make a payment, or a request 
for payment, through a payment service called PayShap, 
formally launched in March 2023. Very conveniently, users 
don’t need to enter the recipient’s bank account or branch 
code details to make payments. Instead, they can use a 
unique identifier such as the recipient’s mobile number, or 
a bank-generated identification number, which serves as 
a proxy for the full banking details. This proxy and resolution 
is enabled through a tamper-proof blockchain-based solution 
powered by TCS’ Quartz Smart Solution. 
By democratizing access to a frictionless system for low value 
payments, TCS’ innovative solution for BankservAfrica has the 
potential to reduce the use of cash for small transactions and 
accelerate formalization of the unorganized sector. It will drive 
new fee-based revenues for banks, and also offer customer 
insights with which they can offer credit to more consumers. 
This will not only improve financial inclusion, but also add to 
South Africa’s GDP growth – a fitting outcome for two very 
purpose-driven organizations that came together to build this 
platform of national importance.
BankservAfrica views cost-effective digital payments as a 
pathway to improving credit access and financial inclusion in 
South Africa. After an extensive evaluation, we selected TCS for 
their deep understanding of the payments ecosystem, global 
experience, technological expertise, intellectual property 
and shared values. The outcome has been very gratifying. By 
changing consumer behaviors, PayShap has the potential to 
reshape sectors and transform the South African economy.
Roshan Moonsamy 
Interim CEO and CFO 
BankservAfrica
Customer Stories | 30

Supporting Takenaka 
Corporation Realize 
its Vision of a 
Sustainable Society 
Founded by a master builder (toryo) more than 
400 years ago, Takenaka Corporation has 
specialized in building construction with an 
integrated design-build approach that includes 
initial planning and aftercare services like 
maintenance. It has redefined urban landscapes 
in Japan and around the world, with famous 
landmarks like Tokyo Tower and Changi International 
Airport. At the core of its longstanding business success 
is its passion for innovation rooted in its toryo spirit, 
quality management, and its commitment to realizing a 
sustainable society.
 
Takenaka’s Vision for 2030 aims to realize a fourth industrial 
revolution in the building industry by embracing digital 
transformation across the construction value chain. It is 
addressing key problems facing the industry in Japan, such 
as labor shortage, by using digital technologies to increase 
employee productivity and improve the work-life balance of 
employees. Its innovation initiatives include AI-based design 
and construction planning, next-generation work sites with 
construction robots and remotely operated cranes, and 
environmentally conscious smart buildings with 
intelligent controls using IoT. The foundation for this 
innovation is the Building 4.0TM digital platform, which 
is being developed and operated in partnership with TCS. 
Building 4.0TM will integrate data from sales, design, estimation, 
engineering, construction management, facilities management 
services, human resources and accounting. This will enable 
superior decision-making across a wide range of operations 
through advanced analysis using machine learning and AI. 
In building design, for example, structural engineers can use 
AI-based cross-section estimations to more efficiently implement 
optimal structural designs. In construction, it can enable better 
construction planning using accurate forecasts of materials and 
personnel required to achieve target schedules, improve visibility 
of project progress, and enhance labor productivity.
TCS is supporting Takenaka in promoting innovation, building 
construction digital twins, simulating human behavior, utilizing 
knowledge of the construction field, and exploring “what-if” 
scenarios. The knowledge gained from these efforts will help 
Takenaka develop comprehensive and sustainable solutions 
through better designs, understand project risks, and improve 
KPIs for quality, cost, schedule, safety, and the environment.
Through Building 4.0TM, Takenaka will continue to create 
new value for society and customers while improving 
business efficiency. It will also contribute to the realization 
of a sustainable society enabling new architecture and urban 
creation services that is in harmony with the environment and 
local communities.
We selected TCS for supporting our digital transformation not only 
because of its accumulated global knowledge and technological 
capabilities, but also because throughout the long histories of both 
companies, there is a common bond in our corporate cultures of 
valuing stakeholders, including society and customers as well as 
employees. Building 4.0 will turn the dreams of our stakeholders 
into reality, and we would like to develop it as a foundation to 
connect with a sustainable society of the future.
Keizo Iwashita 
General Manager of Digital Division & Executive Officer
Takenaka Corporation
Customer Stories | 31

ML: One swallow does not a summer make. This unprecedented 
event at TCS is just a reminder that CEOs are human too, 
and might want to pursue their dreams and aspirations just 
like anybody else. As for our track record in retaining senior 
leadership talent, it remains industry-leading. 
I am proud to say that almost the entire team of 25 business 
heads we had created in 2008 is still in TCS. We have over 
125,000 TCSers today with an average tenure of over 10 years 
in TCS. This cohort represents the true strength of TCS. They 
are the custodians of our culture, values and institutional 
memory, and have been central to our ability to weather the 
unprecedented attrition and influx of fresh talent without letting 
it affect the high quality of project outcomes that our clients 
have come to expect from TCS.
We not only retained our leadership talent better, but also 
expanded the leadership pool six-fold in the last five years by 
incubating a next generation of leaders running sub-ISUs, with 
P&L responsibilities. The breadth and depth of our leadership 
bench today makes our succession planning an industry 
benchmark, with multiple equally-qualified successors for any 
leadership position, starting from the CEO down, as you recently 
witnessed.
SS: Normalizing attrition is definitely a relief, but I wouldn’t call it 
a tailwind. We incurred a 1.4% margin headwind in FY 2023 from 
backfilling and retention expenses. If we onboarded a lateral hire 
at a 20% premium during the year, that increase in employee 
cost is a recurring one. But yes, hopefuly we won’t have any new 
headwind due to attrition in FY 2024. 
Also, with the supplyside challenges easing, incremental 
cost of hiring laterals should be lower, and it also gives us an 
opportunity to bring down subcontractor expense. That is one 
important margin lever for FY 2024. Utilization improvement, 
flatter employee pyramid and hopefully, currency support, are 
the other levers. On the other hand, we will have our usual wage 
increase in Q1 and we should see further increases in travel 
expenses during the year.
SS: It is not true that large outsourcing deals are necessarily 
margin dilutive. A few high profile mega-deals in the industry 
whose low quality revenues impacted margins have resulted in 
that perception. In the last five years, TCS has won several mega 
deals with TCV over $500 million, and every year we win dozens 
of large deals, with TCV over $50 million. And yet, during this 
period, our EBIT margin has remained in a tight band between 
24 and 26 percent.
Profitability of large deals depends on how you construct 
them. A client might push for a certain amount of absolute cost 
reduction at the time of contract renewal. The service provider 
can either drop prices and sacrifice margins to deliver those 
You stood out in the industry with virtually zero attrition at 
senior levels. Now you had CEO-level attrition for the first time 
in your history. What does this say about your retention of 
senior talent?
Is normalizing attrition a margin tailwind for FY 2024? What is 
your margin outlook for the year?
You won many large outsourcing deals in FY 2023, and your 
highest ever number of large deals in Q4. Won’t this hurt 
margins in FY 2024?
Q&A with
CFO
Samir Seksaria
Milind Lakkad
CHRO
Q&A | 32

ML: Yes, this is another unusual, industry-wide problem. 
The pay disparities will eventually go away for two reasons. 
SS: In the short term, higher onsite wage inflation is a headwind 
because our legacy contracts have much lower cost of living 
adjustments written in. But in the medium and longer term, this 
will get adjusted. 
Wage inflation affects everybody in the market including the 
clients themselves. Newer contracts reflect the changed cost 
structure for onsite effort. Also, contractual terms now peg 
annual cost of living increases to prevailing inflation rates. That 
should help mitigate inflation risks in longer term contracts.
SS: Inflation differential is not the only driver of currency 
depreciation. Rupee is also affected by India’s trade deficit, 
interest rate differentials and capital movements. But for 
argument’s sake, let us assume that we may not have the benefit 
of currency depreciation in the future. Now remember, the 
currency depreciation basically helps us offset wage inflation 
in India which historically, we never passed on to clients. In 
the changed circumstances, this too will get baked into new 
contracts the same way onsite wage inflation has been. So in the 
longer term, we should be able to sustain our current margins.
ML: In my view, the productivity benefits will get baked into 
clients’ expectations around project velocity and throughput. 
For a given project team size, clients will expect much higher 
output at a much faster pace, compared to today. On aggregate, 
as the unit price of a function point falls, we expect volumes to 
increase. With ever-increasing dependence on technology for 
competitive differentiation, we expect enterprise spending to 
keep growing, for which we will have to keep hiring new talent. 
So the linearity between revenue and headcount is not going 
away any time soon.
SS: Margins are a measure of relative competitiveness. Based 
just on the productivity improvements in code generation 
using generative AI, it is difficult to see how a technology which 
is freely available to everyone – service providers as well as 
clients’ IT teams – can change relative competitiveness and by 
extension, margins. Margin improvement is possible from selling 
higher-priced growth and transformation solutions which use 
generative AI. Likewise, new software products or platforms 
which use generative AI to deliver superior business outcomes. 
With laterals brought in at higher salaries, how do you 
manage the wage gaps between individuals of similar profile 
doing similar work?
Will sticky onsite inflation be a structural headwind for your 
margins?
Without the inflation differential, the Rupee may show greater 
strength than in the past. How will your margins sustain then?
Finally, a question on generative AI. Will the productivity gains 
delink revenue growth from headcount addition in the future? 
Can we expect a higher margin as a consequence? 
ML: Work from home is definitely more convenient for 
everybody, but there were drawbacks. Tenured employees who 
are well networked within the organization can work effectively 
and even collaborate virtually using the social capital built up 
over the years. That isn’t the case with more junior employees. 
Workplace essentials like collaboration, mentorship and teambuilding suffered a lot in these two years. 
Then there is the matter of organizational culture. Over half our 
workforce today was hired after March 2020. New employees 
get acculturated through physical interactions with senior 
colleagues and leaders, by observing and following their 
behaviors and ways of thinking. Without those interactions, 
employee engagement as well as acculturation got badly 
impacted. All these factors led us to gradually bring back people 
to our offices during the year.
Why is Return to Office so important to TCS? Why not let 
employees continue to work from home?
ML: Historically, women’s attrition at TCS has been similar or 
lower than men’s attrition, so this is unusual. There might be 
other reasons but intuitively, I would think working from home 
during the pandemic reset the domestic arrangements for 
some women, keeping them from returning to office even after 
everything normalized. 
The higher attrition among women in FY 2023 is a setback to our 
efforts to promote gender diversity but we are doubling down 
on it. Focused leadership development programs like iExcel 
are driving tremendous change. Of all the leadership positions 
fulfilled with internal candidates in FY 2023, women made up 
23% of the selected candidates, even though they account for 
only 14% of the applicant pool. This speaks well of the quality 
of the women candidates in our leadership pool as well as 
the supportive attitudes of our business leaders in promoting 
diversity. Likewise, in our external hiring, women make up 38.1% 
of our net hires this year, versus 35.7% in our workforce. 
Attrition among women is higher than for men. Why? How are 
you addressing this?
savings, or propose a completely different operating model 
that uses lesser effort, protects or even expands margins, and 
achieves the client’s objectives. 
TCS has differentiated itself in this space with the latter 
approach. Its win-win propositions reimagine the customer’s 
operating model, leveraging AI and machine learning to reduce 
human intervention while improving process velocity and 
operational resilience. Customers have really taken to this idea. 
In FY 2023, we signed 29 large operating model transformation 
deals, covering business as well as IT operations, compared to 18 
in the prior year. 
One, we are running a program called Elevate that empowers 
employees to take control of their careers and pursue their 
aspirations by achieving certain learning goals. Meeting 
those goals can result in significant pay increases, perhaps 
even a doubling of salary. Second, there will be a natural 
time-correction through performance-linked wage increases, 
promotions and voluntary attrition.
Q&A | 33

Innovating to Improve Crop Yields and Farmer Incomes
With climate change, agriculture is increasingly vulnerable 
to extreme weather events, inconsistent rainfall, as well as 
increased pest and disease outbreaks. This affects crop yields, 
farmer incomes and food security. 
To help address these challenges, TCS built a digital platform 
to empower the Indian farmer and improve the resilience of 
the nation’s farming sector. The TCS Digital Platform for Next 
Generation Agriculture (DNA) is a state-of-the-art, cloud-based 
decision intelligence and crop monitoring system that provides 
customized, site-specific predictive advisory services to farmers 
and other players in the food value chain.
TCS DNA uses an innovative `Sky-Earth’ convergence, intelligently 
fusing remote-sensing data from earth observation satellites and 
drones with data from proximal sensors and handheld devices 
on the field. This gives scale and reduces cost significantly 
without sacrificing accuracy. Proprietary AI/ML algorithms are 
utilized to analyze the data and provide reliable information and 
predictive intelligence on weather, soil condition, crop health, 
and pest forecasts. Farmers can use these insights to make 
quicker and more informed decisions, optimize production costs 
and improve their yield. 
Rallis India Ltd, a leading agri-input company, partnered with TCS 
for the first field deployment of the new platform, to improve 
the productivity of its hybrid seed production farms, as well as 
for internal business planning. Branded Drishti (“Vision”), the 
platform is used to monitor approximately 130 million hectares 
of agricultural land across India, for various aspects such as 
crop productivity, soil moisture, early alerts for pest outbreak, 
as well as seasonal weather anomalies and extreme weather 
events. The platform has helped Rallis increase the field scouting 
efficiency of its hybrid seed production team, and improved 
yield by 1 to 2%.
TCS DNA is also helping Amalgamation Plantations, the second 
largest producer of tea in India, improve the quality and 
sustainability of tea leaves procured from small tea growers. 
It is being used to remotely monitor various aspects of small 
plantations using satellite imagery, predict pest and disease 
and improve quality. This is expected to help small tea growers 
improve their income by 15% and reduce rejections by 20%.
Our partnership with TCS is helping us alleviate 
the issues of farmers and agriculture. The Drishti 
platform identifies problem areas and offers 
actionable insights to farmers in India, leading to 
effective crop management by reducing the risks 
and minimizing the loss in yield.
Sanjiv Lal 
MD & CEO 
Rallis India
Customer Stories | 34

Notice
 | 35
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eighth Annual General 
Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services Limited will be held 
on Thursday, June 29, 2023, at 3:30 p.m. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) to 
transact the following business:
Ordinary Business
To receive, consider and adopt
 
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors 
and the Auditors thereon; and
 
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends (including a 
special dividend) on Equity Shares and to declare a Final 
Dividend on Equity Shares for the financial year 2022-23.
To appoint a director in place of Aarthi Subramanian 
(DIN 07121802), who retires by rotation and, being eligible, 
offers herself for re-appointment.
Special Business
Appointment of K Krithivasan as Director of the Company
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that K Krithivasan (DIN 10106739), who 
was appointed by the Board of Directors, based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, as an Additional Director of the Company 
with effect from June 1, 2023 and who holds office up to 
the date of this Annual General Meeting of the Company 
in terms of Section 161(1) and any other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) 
(including any modification and re-enactment thereof), and 
Article 73 of the Article of Association of the Company, and 
who is eligible for appointment and has consented to act 
as a Director of the Company and in respect of whom the 
Company has received a notice in writing from a Member 
under Section 160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature 
for the office of Director of the Company, be and is hereby 
appointed as a Director of the Company, not liable to retire 
by rotation.”
Appointment of K Krithivasan as Chief Executive Officer 
and Managing Director of the Company
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
196, 197, 203 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) (including any modification 
and re-enactment thereof) read with Schedule V of the 
Act, and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended from 
time to time, the consent of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded for appointment and terms of remuneration of 
K Krithivasan (DIN 10106739), as the Chief Executive Officer 
and Managing Director of the Company for a period of five 
years with effect from June 1, 2023, as recommended by 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved 
by the Board of Directors, upon the terms and conditions 
set out in the Explanatory Statement annexed to the Notice 
convening this Annual General Meeting, (including the 
remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy 
of profits in any financial year during the tenure of his 
appointment), with authority to the Board of Directors 
to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said 
appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between 
the Board of Directors and K Krithivasan.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (which term shall be deemed to herein after 
include any Committee of the Board constituted to 
exercise its powers, including the powers conferred by this 
Resolution), be and is hereby authorised to take all such 
steps as may be necessary, proper and expedient to give 
effect to this Resolution.”

Notice
 | 36
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
To approve existing as well as new material related party 
transactions with
 
Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its subsidiaries, 
(other than Tejas Networks Limited and/or its 
subsidiaries)
 
ii. 
Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and their subsidiaries and Joint 
Ventures & Associate Companies of subsidiaries of 
Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Motors 
Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their 
subsidiaries)
 
iii. Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries
 
iv. 
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited 
and/or their subsidiaries
 
Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly 
owned subsidiaries)
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as 
amended from time to time, the applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rules made 
thereunder, other applicable laws/statutory provisions, 
if any, (including any statutory modification(s) or 
amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time 
being in force), the Company’s Policy on Related Party 
Transactions, and subject to such approval(s), consent(s), 
permission(s) as may be necessary from time to time 
and basis the approval and recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, 
the approval of the Members of the Company be and 
is hereby accorded to the Company to enter/continue 
to enter into Material Related Party Transaction(s)/ 
Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) (whether by 
way of an individual transaction or transaction taken 
together or series of transactions or otherwise) with 
entities falling within the definition of ‘Related Party’ 
under Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, for each of the financial 
years (“FY”) in the course of (a) availing and rendering of 
IT services/ITeS/consulting service(s); (b) reimbursement 
of expenses including towards availing/providing for 
sharing/usage of each other’s resources viz. employees, 
office space, infrastructure including IT assets, taxes 
and related owned/ third-party services; (c) purchase/
sale/exchange/transfer/lease of business asset(s) and/or 
equipment to meet its business objectives/requirements; 
(d) transfer of any resources, services or obligations to 
meet its business objectives/requirements (“Related Party 
Transactions”) on such material terms and conditions as 
detailed in the explanatory statement to this Resolution 
and as may be mutually agreed between related parties 
and the Company, such that the maximum value of the 
Related Party Transactions with such parties, in aggregate, 
does not exceed value as specified under each category, 
in the explanatory statement, provided that the said 
Transaction(s)/Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) 
shall be carried out at in the ordinary course of business 
and in respect of transactions with related parties under 
Section 2(76) of the Act, are at arm’s length basis.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as ‘Board’ which term 
shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the 
Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted 
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers 
including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to 
take all such steps as may be required in this connection 
including finalizing and executing necessary documents, 
contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other 
documents as may be required, seeking all necessary 
approvals to give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf 
of the Company and settling all such issues, questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take 
all such decisions from powers herein conferred to, without 
being required to seek further consent or approval of the 
Members and that the Members shall be deemed to have 
given their approval thereto expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in 
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in 
this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.”
Notes
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its 
General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and 
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, in relation to “Clarification 
on passing of ordinary and special resolutions by 
companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder on account of the threat posed by 
Covid-19”, General Circular Nos. 20/2020 dated 
May 5, 2020, and subsequent circulars issued in this regard, 
the latest being 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022 in 
relation to “Clarification on holding of annual general 
meeting (AGM) through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other 
Audio Visual Means (OAVM)”, (collectively referred to as 
“MCA Circulars”) permitted the holding of the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) through VC/OAVM, without the 
physical presence of the Members at a common venue. 
In compliance with the MCA Circulars, the AGM of the 
Company is being held through VC /OAVM. The registered 
office of the Company shall be deemed to be the venue for 
the AGM.
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting out material facts 
concerning the business under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the 

Notice
 | 37
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Notice, is annexed hereto. Further, the relevant details 
with respect to Item Nos. 3 and 4 pursuant to Regulation 
36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India, in respect of Directors seeking 
appointment/re-appointment at this AGM are also 
annexed.
In accordance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and Circular 
Nos. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 
May 12, 2020, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 
January 15, 2021, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022 and SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated January 5, 2023 issued by Securities Exchange Board 
of India (collectively referred to as “SEBI Circulars”), the 
Notice of the AGM along with the Integrated Annual Report 
for FY 2022-23 is being sent by electronic mode to those 
Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the 
Company/Depositories.
 
If your e-mail address is not registered with the Company/
Depositories, you may register on or before 5:00 p.m. (IST) 
on Thursday, June 22, 2023 to receive this Notice of the 
AGM and the Integrated Annual Report for FY 2022-23 by 
completing the process for registration of e-mail address as 
under:
 
Click on the URL: https://on.tcs.com/EmailRegn.
 
Select the Name of the Company from dropdown: 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited.
 
Enter DP and Client ID (if shares held in electronic 
form)/Folio number (if shares held in physical form) 
and Permanent Account Number (“PAN”). In the 
event PAN details are not registered for physical 
folio, Member to enter one of the Share Certificate 
numbers.
 
Enter Mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
System generated One Time Password (“OTP”) to be 
sent on mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
Enter OTP received on mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
Click on Submit button.
 
On completing the above process your request will 
be accepted and request id will be generated. Email 
registered is for limited purpose of sending notice 
pertaining to the current event.
 
Members may note that the Notice and Integrated Annual 
Report 2022-23 will also be available on the Company’s 
website www.tcs.com, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively, 
and on the website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to 
attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy 
to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need 
not be a Member of the Company. Since this AGM is being 
held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC/OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the 
Members will not be available for the AGM and hence the 
Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are not 
annexed to this Notice.
Institutional shareholders/corporate shareholders 
(i.e. other than individuals, HUFs, NRIs, etc.) are required to 
send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of their respective 
Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., 
authorizing their representative to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM on their behalf and to vote through remote 
e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail on its registered e-mail address to 
tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com with a copy marked to 
evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUFs, NRIs etc.) can also upload their 
Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority Letter, etc. 
by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
The Company has fixed Thursday, June 15, 2023 as the 
‘Record Date’ for determining entitlement of Members to 
final dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
if approved at the AGM.
If the final dividend, as recommended by the Board of 
Directors, is approved at the AGM, payment of such 
dividend subject to deduction of tax at source will be made 
on Monday, July 3, 2023, as under:
 
To all Beneficial Owners in respect of shares held in 
dematerialized form as per the data as may be made 
available by the National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL), collectively “Depositories”, as of end of 
day on Thursday, June 15, 2023.
 
ii. 
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical 
form after giving effect to valid transmission or 
transposition requests lodged with the Company as of 
the close of business hours on Thursday, June 15, 2023.
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank 
account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.
 
For shares held in electronic form: to their Depository 
Participants (DPs)
 
For shares held in physical form: to the Company/
Registrar and Transfer Agents (RTA) in prescribed Form 

Notice
 | 38
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated 
March 16, 2023. In the absence of any of the required 
documents in a folio, on or after October 1, 2023, 
the folio shall be frozen by the RTA. Intimation letters 
along with Business Reply Envelopes for furnishing 
the required details are being sent by the Company. 
Members may also refer to Frequently Asked 
Questions (“FAQs”) on Company’s website 
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies 
to issue securities in dematerialized form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities 
certificate; claim from unclaimed suspense account; 
renewal/exchange of securities certificate; endorsement; 
sub-division/splitting of securities certificate; consolidation 
of securities certificates/folios; transmission and 
transposition. Accordingly, Members are requested to make 
service requests by submitting a duly filled and signed 
Form ISR – 4, the format of which is available on the 
Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ and on 
the website of the Company’s RTA, TSR Consultants Private 
Limited (“TCPL”) at https://www.tcplindia.co.in/. It may be 
noted that any service request can be processed only after 
the folio is KYC Compliant.
10. In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended from time to time, transfer, transmission 
and transposition of securities shall be effected only in 
dematerialized form. In view of the same and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and avail various 
benefits of dematerialization, Members are advised to 
dematerialize the shares held by them in physical form. 
Members can contact the Company or TCPL, for assistance 
in this regard.
11. Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order 
of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to 
the Company or TCPL, the details of such folios together 
with the share certificates along with the requisite KYC 
Documents for consolidating their holdings in one folio. 
Requests for consolidation of share certificates shall be 
processed in dematerialized form.
12. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility 
for making nomination is available for the Members in 
respect of the shares held by them. Members who have not 
yet registered their nomination are requested to register 
the same by submitting Form No. SH-13. If a Member 
desires to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and 
record a fresh nomination, he/she may submit the same in 
Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may be. The said forms can 
be downloaded from the Company’s website https://on.tcs.
com/IR-FAQ. Members are requested to submit the said 
details to their DP in case the shares are held by them in 
dematerialized form and to TCPL in case the shares are held 
in physical form.
13. In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register 
of Members of the Company as on the cut-off date will be 
entitled to vote during the AGM.
14. Members seeking any information with regard to the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM, 
are requested to write to the Company on or before 
June 28, 2023 through e-mail on investor.relations@tcs.com. 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
15. Members are requested to note that, dividends if not 
encashed for a period of 7 years from the date of transfer 
to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in respect of which 
dividend has remained unclaimed for 7 consecutive years 
or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend 
account shall also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, 
Members are requested to claim their dividends from the 
Company, within the stipulated timeline. The Members, 
whose unclaimed dividends and/or shares have been 
transferred to IEPF, may contact the Company or TCPL and 
submit the required documents for issue of Entitlement Letter. 
The Members can attach the Entitlement Letter and other 
required documents and file the IEPF-5 form for claiming 
the dividend and/or shares available on www.iepf.gov.in. 
For details, please refer to Corporate Governance Report 
which is a part of this report and FAQ of investor page on 
Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
16. Members attending the meeting through VC/OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of determining the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Act.
17. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income will 
be taxable in the hands of shareholders w.e.f. April 1, 2020 
and the Company is required to deduct tax at source from 
dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed rates. 
For the prescribed rates for various categories, please refer 
to the Finance Act, 2020 and the amendments thereof. 
The shareholders are requested to update their valid PAN 
with the DPs (if shares held in dematerialized form) and 
the Company/TCPL (if shares are held in physical form).
 
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and whose 
income does not exceed maximum amount not chargeable 
to tax or who is not liable to pay income tax, as the case 
may be, can submit a yearly declaration in Form No. 
15G/15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction of tax at 
source by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2324@tcplindia.co.in 
or upload the documents on https://on.tcs.com/FormsRegn 
by 11:59 p.m. (IST) on Wednesday, June 7, 2023. 
Shareholders are requested to note that in case their PAN is 
not registered or having invalid PAN or Specified Person as 
defined under Section 206AB of the Income-tax Act, the tax 
will be deducted at a higher rate prescribed under Section 
206AA or 206AB of the Income-tax Act, as applicable.
 
Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign Institutional 
Investors (FIIs)/Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs)] can avail 
beneficial rates under tax treaty between India and their 

Notice
 | 39
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
country of tax residence, subject to providing necessary 
documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and Beneficial 
Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency Certificate, Form 
10F, any other document which may be required to avail 
the tax treaty benefits. For this purpose, the shareholder 
may submit the above documents (PDF/JPG Format) 
by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2324@tcplindia.co.in or 
upload the documents on https://on.tcs.com/FormsRegn. 
The aforesaid declarations and documents need to be 
submitted by the shareholders by 11:59 p.m. (IST) on 
Wednesday, June 7, 2023.
 
For further details please refer to FAQs on Taxation of 
Dividend Distribution at https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
18. Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM are as 
follows:
 
VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS
 
 
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
as amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI 
Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated December 9, 2020 in relation to “e-voting 
Facility Provided by Listed Entities”, the Members 
are provided with the facility to cast their vote 
electronically, through the e-voting services 
provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set forth 
in this Notice. The instructions for e-voting are 
given herein below.
 
 
ii. 
The remote e-voting period commences on 
Monday, June 26, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends 
on Wednesday, June 28, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). 
During this period, Members holding shares 
either in physical form or in dematerialized form, 
as on Thursday, June 22, 2023 i.e. cut-off date, 
may cast their vote electronically.
 
 
 
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL 
for voting thereafter. Members have the option to 
cast their vote on any of the resolutions using the 
remote e-voting facility, either during the period 
commencing from June 26, 2023 to 
June 28, 2023 or e-voting during the AGM. 
Members who have voted on some of the 
resolutions during the said voting period are 
also eligible to vote on the remaining resolutions 
during the AGM.
 
 
iii. 
The Members who have cast their vote by 
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also 
attend/participate in the AGM through VC/OAVM 
but shall not be entitled to cast their vote on such 
resolution again.
 
 
iv. 
The Board of Directors has appointed P N Parikh 
(Membership No. FCS 327) and failing him, 
Jigyasa Ved (Membership No. FCS 6488) of 
Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a 
fair and transparent manner.
 
 
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date.
 
 
vi. 
Any person holding shares in physical form 
and non-individual shareholders, who acquires 
shares of the Company and becomes a Member 
of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may 
obtain the User ID and Password by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. However, if he/
she is already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-voting then he/she can use his/her existing 
User ID and Password for casting the vote. In case 
of individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode and who acquires shares 
of the Company and becomes a Member of 
the Company after sending of the Notice and 
holding shares as of the cut-off date may follow 
steps mentioned below under “Login method 
for remote e-voting and joining virtual meeting 
for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode.”
 
 
vii. The details of the process and manner for remote 
e-voting are explained herein below:
 
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system.
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below
Login method for remote e-voting and joining the virtual 
meeting for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode
 
Pursuant to SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on “e-voting 
facility provided by Listed Companies”, e-voting process has 
been enabled to all the individual demat account holders, 
by way of single login credential, through their demat 
accounts/websites of Depositories/DPs to increase the 
efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account 
holders would be able to cast their vote without having to 
register again with the e-voting service provider (“ESP”) 
thereby not only facilitating seamless authentication but 
also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting 
process. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-voting 
facility.

Notice
 | 40
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with NSDL.
 NSDL IDeAS facility 
 
If you are already registered, follow the below steps
 
Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following 
URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
 
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon 
under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section. 
 
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services. 
 
Click on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting 
services and you will be able to see e-voting page. 
 
Click on options available against Company name or e-Voting service provider 
- NSDL and you will be re-directed to NSDL e-voting website for casting your vote 
during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during 
the meeting.
 
If you are not registered, follow the below steps
 
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
 
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://on.tcs.com/NSDLRegn. 
 
Please follow steps given in points 1-5. 
e-voting website of NSDL
 
Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone. 
 
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which 
is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
 
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen. 
 
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you 
can see e-voting page. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting 
service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and 
e-voting during the meeting.
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
 

Notice
 | 41
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with CDSL
Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest, they can login through their 
User ID and Password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without 
any further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi/Easiest are 
https://on.tcs.com/CDSLRegn or www.cdslindia.com and click on login and select MyEasi.
After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see the e-voting menu. 
The menu will have links of e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL. Click on NSDL to cast your 
vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the 
meeting.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at 
https://on.tcs.com/CDSLEasiRegn
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account 
number and PAN from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile and e-mail as recorded in 
the demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the 
respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their DPs
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. 
Once logged-in, you will be able to see the e-voting option. Once you click on 
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - NSDL 
and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
 
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password 
option available at respective websites.
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Securities held with NSDL
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 
+91 22 48867000 and +91 22 24997000
Securities held with CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800225533
II) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
 
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
 
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.

Notice
 | 42
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID 
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your user ID 
is IN300***12******
For Members who hold shares 
in demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 
12**************
For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company
For example if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is 001*** then user ID is 
123456001***
 
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below: 
 
 
If you are already registered for e-voting, then 
you can use your existing password to login and 
cast your vote.
 
 
If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you by 
NSDL. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, 
you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
 
 
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
 
 
 
(i) 
If your e-mail ID is registered in your 
demat account or with the Company, your 
‘initial password’ is communicated to you on 
your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to 
you from NSDL in your mailbox from 
evoting@nsdl.com. Open the e-mail and 
open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open 
the .pdf file. 
 
 
 
 
The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 
digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits 
of client ID for CDSL account or folio number 
for shares held in physical form. The .pdf 
file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial 
password’. 
 
 
 
(ii) In case you have not registered your e-mail 
address with the Company/Depository, 
please follow instructions mentioned below 
in this notice.
 
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
 
 
 Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, PAN, name and 
registered address.
 
 
Members can also use the OTP based login for 
casting the votes on the e-voting system of NSDL.
 
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
 
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
 
10. After you click on the “Login” button, home page of 
e-voting will open.
 
Details on Step 2 are given below:
 
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system?
 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see 
all the companies’ “EVEN” in which you are holding 
shares and whose voting cycle and general meeting is 
in active status.
 
Select “EVEN” of Company, which is 123989 for which 
you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-voting 
period and casting your vote during the General 
Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click 
on “VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
 
Now you are ready for e-voting as the voting page 
opens.
 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. 
assent or dissent, verify or modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.

Notice
 | 43
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed and you will receive 
a confirmation by way of a SMS on your registered 
mobile number. 
 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation 
page.
 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
 
General Guidelines for shareholders
 
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five 
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. 
In such an event, you will need to go through the 
“Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User 
Reset Password?” option available on 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
 
In case of any queries related to e-voting, you may 
refer the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) 
for Shareholders and e-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 
+91 22 48867000 and +91 22 24997000 or send the 
request to Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in.
 
Members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.co.in 
for procuring user id and password for e-voting by 
providing demat account number / Folio number, 
client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card), AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy of 
Aadhaar Card). If you are an Individual shareholder 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested 
to refer to the login method explained above.
 
The instructions for members for e-voting on the day 
of the AGM are mentioned in point number 18(A).
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM 
THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER
 
Members will be able to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided 
by NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com following 
the steps mentioned above for login to NSDL e-voting 
system. After successful login, you can see VC/OAVM 
link placed under Join meeting menu against company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link 
placed under “Join Meeting” menu.
 
 
Members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and 
Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the Notice. 
Further Members can also use the OTP based login for 
logging into the e-voting system of NSDL.
 
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall 
open 30 minutes before the time scheduled for the 
AGM.
 
Members who need assistance before or during the 
meeting, can contact NSDL on evoting @nsdl.co.in 
+91 22 48867000 and +91 22 24997000 or contact 
Amit Vishal, Assistant Vice President – NSDL at 
amitv@nsdl.co.in or Sanjeev Yadav, Assistant ManagerNSDL at sanjeevy@nsdl.co.in
 
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves 
as a speaker by sending their request from their 
registered e-mail address mentioning their name, 
DP ID and Client ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile 
number at tcsagm.speakers@tcs.com from June 23, 
2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) to June 25, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). 
Those Members who have registered themselves as a 
speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the AGM. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on 
the availability of time for the AGM. 
 
Other Instructions
 
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion 
of voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-voting (votes cast during the AGM and 
votes cast through remote e-voting) and will submit 
a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or 
a person authorised by him in writing, who shall 
countersign the same. The results will be announced 
within the time stipulated under the applicable laws.
 
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be placed on the Company’s website 
www.tcs.com and on the website of NSDL 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately. The 
Company shall simultaneously forward the results 
to National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
By order of the Board of Directors
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
 Company Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
Membership No. ACS 7016
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Registered Office:
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021
CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781
Tel: +91 22 6778 9595
Email: investor.relations@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com

Notice
 | 44
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Explanatory Statement
As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), 
the following explanatory statement sets out all material facts 
relating to the business mentioned under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the 
accompanying Notice:
Item Nos. 4 and 5
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on April 12, 2023, 
based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, appointed K Krithivasan as an 
Additional Director of the Company with effect from 
June 1, 2023. The Board, at the same meeting, also appointed 
K Krithivasan as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
(“CEO and MD”) of the Company, for a period of five years with 
effect from June 1, 2023, subject to approval of the Members.
In terms of Section 161(1) of the Act, K Krithivasan holds the 
office of Additional Director only upto the date of this Annual 
General Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for appointment 
as a Director. The Company has received a notice in writing from 
a Member, in terms of Section 160(1) of the Act, proposing his 
candidature for the office of Director.
K Krithivasan has also confirmed that he is not disqualified from 
being appointed as Director, in terms of the provisions of Section 
164(1), 164(2) of the Act and is not debarred to hold the office 
of a Director by virtue of any order passed by SEBI or any other 
authority and has given his consent to act as a Director of the 
Company.
Prior to his appointment as the CEO and MD, K Krithivasan was 
the Global Head of Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance 
(BFSI) Business Group and played a key role in building deep 
customer relationships and mindshare as well as market 
positioning across geographies. He has been with the Company 
for over 3 decades helping customers with their growth and 
transformation journeys and technology strategies.
He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering from 
the University of Madras and a Master’s Degree in Industrial and 
Management Engineering from IIT Kanpur. 
Further details of K Krithivasan have been given in Annexure A 
to this Notice.
The main terms and conditions of appointment of 
K Krithivasan (hereinafter referred to as “CEO and MD”) are 
given below:
A. Tenure of Appointment
 
The appointment as CEO and MD is for a period of five 
years with effect from June 1, 2023.
B. Nature of Duties
 
The CEO and MD shall devote his whole time and attention 
to the business of the Company and shall perform such 
duties as may be entrusted to him by the Board from 
time to time and separately communicated to him and 
exercise such powers as may be assigned to him, subject 
to the superintendence, control and directions of the 
Board in connection with and in the best interests of the 
business of the Company and the business of one or more 
of its associated companies and/or subsidiaries, including 
performing duties as assigned to the CEO and MD from 
time to time by serving on the Boards of such associated 
companies and/or subsidiaries or any other executive body 
or any committee of such a company.
C. Remuneration
 
a. Basic Salary
 
 
Basic Salary of ₹10,00,000 per month; upto a 
maximum of ₹16,00,000 per month.
 
 
The annual increments which will be effective 
1st April each year, will be decided by the Board 
based on the recommendations of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and will 
be performance-based and take into account the 
Company’s performance as well, within the said 
maximum amount.
 
b. Benefits, Perquisites, and Allowances
 
 
Details of Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances are as 
follows:
 
 
Rent-free residential accommodation (partly 
furnished or otherwise) with the Company 
bearing the cost of repairs, maintenance, society 
charges and utilities (e.g., gas, electricity and 
water charges) for the said accommodation 
or house rent, house maintenance and utility 
allowances aggregating 85% of the Basic Salary 
(in case residential accommodation is not 
provided by the Company).
 
 
ii. 
Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, 
car facility, telecommunication facility and 
housing loan facility as per Rules of the Company.
 
 
iii. 
Other perquisites and allowances given below 
subject to a maximum of 55 percent of the Basic 
Salary; this shall include medical allowance, 
leave travel concession/allowance and other 
allowances/personal accident insurance/club 
membership fees.
 
 
iv. 
Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation 
Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per 
the Rules of the Company.
 
 
Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per 
the Rules of the Company.
 
Commission
 
 
In addition to Salary, Benefits, Perquisites and 
Allowances, the CEO and MD would be paid such 
remuneration by way of Commission, calculated 
with reference to the net profits of the Company in a 
particular financial year, as may be determined by the 
Board of the Company subject to the overall ceilings 

Notice
 | 45
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
stipulated in Section 197 of the Act. The specific 
amount payable to the CEO and MD will be based 
on his performance as evaluated by the Board or 
the NRC and approved by the Board and will be 
payable annually after the annual accounts have been 
approved by the Board of Directors and adopted by 
members.
 
D. Minimum Remuneration
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein 
contained, where in any financial year during the 
tenure of the CEO and MD, the Company has no 
profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company 
will pay remuneration by way of Salary, Benefits, 
Perquisites, Allowances and Commission subject to 
such further approvals as may be required.
 
E. Insurance
 
 
The Company will take an appropriate Directors’ 
and Officers’ Liability Insurance policy and pay the 
premiums for the same. It is intended to maintain such 
insurance cover for the entire term, subject to the 
terms of such policy in force from time to time. A copy 
of the policy document shall be supplied on request.
 
Other terms of Appointment
 
 
The CEO and MD shall enter into an Agreement, 
containing, inter alia, the following terms:
 
 
The CEO and MD shall not become interested 
or otherwise concerned, directly or through his 
spouse and/or children, in any selling agency of 
the Company.
 
 
ii. 
The terms and conditions of the appointment 
of the CEO and MD may be altered and varied 
from time to time by the Board as it may, in its 
discretion deem fit, irrespective of the limits 
stipulated under Schedule V of the Act or any 
amendments made hereafter in this regard in 
such manner as may be agreed to between the 
Board and the CEO and MD, subject to such 
approvals as may be required.
 
 
iii. 
The Agreement may be terminated by either 
party by giving to the other party six months’ 
notice of such termination or the Company 
paying six months’ remuneration in lieu thereof.
 
 
iv. 
The employment of the CEO and MD may be 
terminated by the Company without notice or 
payment in lieu of notice:
 
 
 
if the CEO and MD is found guilty of any 
gross negligence, default or misconduct in 
connection with or affecting the business of 
the Company or any subsidiary or associated 
company to which he is required to render 
services; or
 
 
 
in the event of any serious repeated or 
continuing breach (after prior warning) or 
non-observance by the CEO and MD of any of 
the stipulations contained in the Agreement
 
 
Upon the termination by whatever means of the 
CEO and MD’s employment:
 
 
 
the CEO and MD shall immediately cease 
to hold offices held by him in any holding 
company, subsidiaries or associated 
companies without claim for compensation 
for loss of office by virtue of Section 167(1)
(h) of the Act and unless the Board of 
Directors of the Company decide otherwise, 
shall resign as trustee of any trusts 
connected with the Company.
 
 
 
the CEO and MD shall not, without the 
consent of the Company, at any time 
thereafter represent himself as connected 
with the Company or any of the subsidiaries 
or associated companies.
 
 
vi. 
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the 
related Rules which are applicable to other 
employees of the Company shall also be 
applicable to the CEO and MD, unless specifically 
provided otherwise.
 
 
vii. The terms and conditions of appointment of the 
CEO and MD also include clauses pertaining to 
adherence with the Tata Code of Conduct and 
maintenance of confidentiality.
 
 
viii. If at any time, the CEO and MD ceases to be 
a Director of the Company for any reason 
whatsoever, he shall cease to be the CEO and 
MD and employee of the Company. In case of 
termination for any reason whatsoever, the 
CEO and MD will cease to be the Director and 
employee of the Company.
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Board, may at its 
absolute discretion decide to continue him as a 
Director or an employee of the Company.
 
 
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 196, 
197, 203 and other applicable provisions, if any, read 
with Schedule V of the Act, as amended from time to 
time, the terms of appointment and remuneration 
of the CEO and MD as specified above are now 
being placed before the Members for their approval. 
The Board recommends the passing of the Resolutions 
at Item Nos. 4 and 5 as an Ordinary Resolutions for 
approval of the Members.
 
 
Except K Krithivasan and his relatives, none of the 
other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their respective relatives is concerned 
or interested, in the Resolutions set out at Item Nos. 4 
and 5 of the Notice.

Notice
 | 46
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Item No. 6
Pursuant to the amended Regulation 23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘‘SEBI Listing 
Regulations’’), the threshold limit for determination of material Related Party Transactions is the lower of ₹1,000 crores 
(Rupees One thousand crores) or 10% (ten percent) of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited 
financial statements of the listed entity and such material related party transactions exceeding the limits, would require prior approval 
of Members by means of an ordinary resolution.
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company” or “TCS”), being a globally recognised provider of IT services, participates in the 
digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the 
course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the 
“Tata Group”. The transactions that the Company has had with its related parties for the last three years are given below:
Year ended March 31, 2023 
(` crore)
Transactions
Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited
Other than 
wholly owned 
subsidiaries of 
the Company
Subsidiaries of Tata 
Sons Private Limited
Associates/joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and their 
subsidiaries
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

1,063
1,152
2,506
4,759
Other income
Procurement of goods and 
services

1,000
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

Year ended March 31, 2022 
(` crore)
Transactions
Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited
Other than 
wholly owned 
subsidiaries of 
the Company
Subsidiaries of Tata 
Sons Private Limited
Associates/joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and their 
subsidiaries
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

1,164

2,233
4,207
Other income

Procurement of goods and 
services

1,200
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

Year ended March 31, 2021 
(` crore)
Transactions
Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited
Other than 
wholly owned 
subsidiaries of 
the Company
Subsidiaries of Tata 
Sons Private Limited
Associates/joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and their 
subsidiaries
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

1,104

1,752
3,482
Other income

Procurement of goods and 
services

1,159
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

In view of the changes in the threshold for determining the related party transactions that require prior shareholder approval and 
considering the fact that the list of related parties will change dynamically with no action on the part of the Company and to facilitate 
seamless contracting and rendering/availing of product and services between the Company and “related parties”, the Company seeks 
the approval of the shareholders to approve entering into contracts/arrangements within the thresholds and conditions mentioned 

Notice
 | 47
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
in the resolution. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and approved by the Audit 
Committee. Further, the transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are reviewed by our statutory auditors for being at 
arm’s length.
The details of transactions that require approval are given below
Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its Subsidiaries (other than Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries)
Sr. 
No.
Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its subsidiaries (other than Tejas Networks 
Limited and/or its subsidiaries) 
(please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)
Nature of relationship [including nature of 
its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Holding Company – Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries which are 
covered under Section 2(76) of the Act
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, 
and such related areas
(b) Supply of hardware and software
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc. 
(e) Leasing of property 
(f) 
Any transfer of resources, services, or obligations to meet its 
objectives/requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, 
monetary value and particulars of contract/
arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a 
maximum of 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per 
annum through contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration 
upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of 4.4 percent of the consolidated 
turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum
Particulars of the proposed transaction
Same as Sr. No. 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years
Value of the proposed transaction 
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a 
single related party subject to a cumulative threshold of 4.4 percent of the 
consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related parties 
in this category
Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented by the 
value of the proposed transaction
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with 
single related party 
4.4 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across 
all related parties 
Justification of the proposed transaction
The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates 
in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners 
in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the 
course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, 
capabilities and resources of entities within the group. These transactions 
aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers 
of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge 
technologies to sustain and grow their business
10.
Details of the valuation report or external 
party report (if any) enclosed with the 
Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors

Notice
 | 48
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Description 
Particulars
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, N G Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or 
given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness is 
incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investment made or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest rate 
and repayment schedule, whether secured 
or unsecured; if secured, the nature of 
security)
Not Applicable
the purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such 
funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material 
facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
ii. 
Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons Private Limited and their subsidiaries and Joint ventures & Associate 
Companies of subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or 
their subsidiaries)
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons Private Limited and their 
subsidiaries and Joint ventures & Associate Companies of subsidiaries of 
Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover 
Limited and/or their subsidiaries) 
(please refer to Annexure B for list of Joint Ventures, Associate Companies, 
and their subsidiaries)
Nature of relationship 
[including nature of its interest (financial 
or otherwise)]
Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons Private Limited and their 
subsidiaries, related parties as per SEBI Listing regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, 
and such related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software 
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Leasing of property 
(f) 
Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements

Notice
 | 49
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a 
maximum of 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per 
annum through contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration 
upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of 2.2 percent of the consolidated 
turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum
Particulars of the proposed transaction
Same as Sr. No. 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years
Value of the proposed transaction 
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a 
single related party subject to a cumulative threshold of 2.2 percent of the 
consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related parties 
in this category
Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented by the 
value of the proposed transaction
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with 
single related party 
2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across 
all related parties 
Justification of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates 
in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in 
respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of 
rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities 
and resources of entities within the group. These transactions aim at 
providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata 
group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to 
sustain and grow their business
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, N G Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made 
or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
the purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material 
facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice

Notice
 | 50
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
iii. Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries 
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries 
(please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Tejas Networks Limited is a subsidiary of Tata Sons Private Limited and hence 
related party under Section 2(76) of the Act of Tata Sons Private Limited 
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) 
Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, 
and such related areas 
(b) 
Supply of hardware and software 
(c) reimbursement of expenses 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) 
Leasing of property 
(f) 
Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, 
monetary value and particulars of 
contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions 
that are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company 
is operating in. Monetary value of transactions subject to a maximum of 
₹15,000 crore through contracts/arrangements for a duration upto twelve 
years
Particulars of the proposed transaction
Same as Sr. No. 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contractual commitments expected for a tenure of 12 years
Value of the proposed transaction 
₹15,000 crore 
Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented by the 
value of the proposed transaction.
Value of the proposed transaction represents 6.6 percent of the consolidated 
turnover of the Company for FY 2023. 
Justification of the proposed transaction The domain expertise and competencies available within the group and the 
collaboration with the company will help in delivering world class technology 
to one of the high-priority and prestigious projects of the Government of 
India and further establish Tata Group’s commitment to attain Atmanirbhar 
Bharat
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N G Subramaniam
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made 
or given
Source of funds 
Please refer Sr. No. 12 C below
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Unsecured Interest-free mobilization advance to be given upto ₹1,500 crore 
to facilitate procurement of equipment, on the back of similar unsecured 
interest-free mobilization advance received from the end-customer. 
Adjustment of advance/s against progressive delivery of milestones, on the 
same terms as committed by the Company to end-customer

Notice
 | 51
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Same as Sr. No. 12 C
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material 
facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
iv. 
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their subsidiaries 
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their subsidiaries 
(please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Tata Motors Limited is an associate of Tata Sons Private Limited. Jaguar Land 
Rover Limited is a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited and hence related party 
as per SEBI Listing regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, 
and such related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions upto approx. ₹5,000 crore per annum
Particulars of the proposed transaction
Same as Sr. No. 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto five years, extendable by 
another five years
Value of the proposed transaction 
Approx. ₹5,000 crore per annum 
Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented by the 
value of the proposed transaction.
Maximum up to 2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per 
annum for duration of contract
Justification of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates 
in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in 
respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of 
rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities 
and resources of entities within the group. These transactions aim at 
providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata 
group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to 
sustain and grow their business
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
Company’s governance policies with respect to negotiation with third parties 
are followed for all contracts/arrangements with related party as defined 
under SEBI Listing Regulations. These contracts/arrangements are approved 
by the Audit Committee on quarterly basis
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, Hanne Sorensen and O P Bhatt
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made 
or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable

Notice
 | 52
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material 
facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries)
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) 
(please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Subsidiaries of the Company which are covered under Section 2(76) of the 
Act
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, 
and such related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software 
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) 
Leasing of property 
(f) 
Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a 
maximum of 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per 
annum through contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration 
up to 5 years or more and a cumulative threshold of 2.22 percent of the 
consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum
Particulars of the proposed transaction
Same as Sr. No. 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years or more 
Value of the proposed transaction 
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a 
single related party subject to a cumulative threshold of 2.2 percent of the 
consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related parties

Notice
 | 53
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. No. Description 
Particulars
Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented by the 
value of the proposed transaction. 
(and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, 
such percentage calculated on the basis 
of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on 
a standalone basis shall be additionally 
provided)
1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company with single related 
party 
2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related 
parties
Up to 50 percent of respective subsidiary turnover
Justification of the proposed transaction As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in 
respective countries enters into the contracts from customers and outsource 
the service delivery to the parent company TCS Limited. Solutions framework 
along with trained domain experts of TCS Limited ensure delivery of high 
quality and certainty to end-customers at respective countries
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing by compliance team and Statutory Auditors
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
Person/s holding position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
and/or Executive Director and/or Chief Operating Officer 
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made 
or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material 
facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
 
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or its respective relatives, other than as mentioned above, is 
concerned or interested, in the resolution.
 
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s) have been recommended by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of 
the Company for consideration and approval by the Members.
 
It is pertinent to note that no related party shall vote to approve this Resolution whether the entity is a related party to the 
particular transaction or not.

Notice
 | 54
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Annexure A
Details of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting
(In pursuance of Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings)
Particulars
Aarthi Subramanian
K Krithivasan
DIN 
07121802
10106739
Date of Birth and Age
June 26, 1967 (55 years)
May 5, 1964 (58 years)
Date of Appointment
March 12, 2015 
June 1, 2023
Qualifications
B. Tech in Computer Science
Master’s Degree in Engineering 
Management
Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical 
Engineering
Master’s Degree in Industrial and 
Management Engineering
Expertise in specific functional areas
Wide experience in Information Technology
Wide experience in Information Technology
Terms and Conditions of 
appointment/re- appointment 
Not Applicable
Appointed as the CEO and MD for a period of 
five years w.e.f. from June 1, 2023. 
Terms and conditions of his appointment 
and proposed remuneration are specified in 
the resolution and explanatory statement 
annexed to this notice.
Details of Remuneration sought to be 
paid 
Sitting fees for attending Board Meetings 
and Committee Meetings, if any, where she 
is a member.
Details of remuneration sought to be paid 
are detailed in Explanatory Statement – Item 
No. 5
Number of Board meeting attended 
during the year (Financial Year 202223)
6 (Six)
Not Applicable
Directorships held in other companies 
(excluding Foreign Companies)
Tata Industries Limited
Tata Capital Limited
Tata AIA Life Insurance Company 
Limited
Tata Payments Limited
Tata Unistore Limited
Infiniti Retail Limited
Tata Business Hub Limited
Tata Digital Private Limited
Supermarket Grocery Supplies Private 
Limited
Tata Neu Private Limited
Nil
Listed Entities from which he/she has 
resigned as Director in past 3 years
Nil
Nil
Memberships/Chairmanships of 
committees of other companies
Tata Capital Limited
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee*
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Information Technology Strategy 
Committee
Infiniti Retail Limited
Audit Committee
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Risk Management Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee*
Technology Committee
Nil

Notice
 | 55
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Particulars
Aarthi Subramanian
K Krithivasan
Tata UniStore Limited
Internal Audit Committee
Tata Industries Limited
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Risk Management Committee*
Tata Digital Private Limited
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee*
Number of Equity Shares held in the 
Company
5,600
11,232
*Chairperson
For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other 
directors and key managerial personnel, in respect of the above Directors, please refer to the corporate governance report which is a 
part of this report.
Annexure B
List of subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Tejas Networks Limited and/or 
their subsidiaries) as on March 31, 2023
Sr. 
No.
Name

Ewart Investments Limited

Tata Limited

Indian Rotorcraft Limited

Panatone Finvest Limited

Akashastha Technologies Private Limited

Tata Communications Limited

Tata Communications Transformation Services Limited

Tata Communications Collaboration Services Private Limited

Tata Communications Payment Solutions Limited

Tata Communications Lanka Limited

Tata Communications Services (International) Pte. Limited

Tata Communications (Bermuda) Limited

Tata Communications (Netherlands) B.V.

Tata Communications (Hong Kong) Limited

ITXC IP Holdings S.A.R.L.

Tata Communications (America) Inc.

Tata Communications (International) Pte Limited

Tata Communications (Canada) Limited

TATA COMMUNICATIONS (BELGIUM) SRL

Tata Communications (Italy) SRL

Tata Communications (Portugal) Unipessoal LDA

Tata Communications (France) SAS

Tata Communications (Nordic) AS

Tata Communications (Guam) L.L.C.

Tata Communications (Portugal) Instalacao E Manutencao De Redes LDA

Tata Communications (Australia) Pty Limited

Notice
 | 56
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Communications SVCS Pte Ltd

Tata Communications (Poland) SP.Z.O.O.

Tata Communications (Japan) KK.

Tata Communications (UK) Limited

Tata Communications Deutschland GMBH

Tata Communications (Middle East) FZ-LLC

Tata Communications (Hungary) KFT

Tata Communications (Ireland) DAC

Tata Communications (Russia) LLC

Tata Communications (Switzerland) GmbH

Tata Communications (Sweden) AB

TCPOP Communication GmbH

Tata Communications (Taiwan) Limited

Tata Communications (Thailand) Limited

Tata Communications (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Tata Communications Transformation Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd

Tata Communications (Spain) S.L.

Tata Communications (Beijing) Technology Limited

VSNL SNOSPV Pte. Limited

Tata Communications (South Korea) Limited

Tata Communications Transformation Services (Hungary) Kft.

Tata Communications Transformation Services Pte Limited

Tata Communications (Brazil) Participacoes Limitada

Tata Communications Transformation Services (US) Inc

Tata Communications Comunicacoes E Multimídia (Brazil) Limitada

Nexus Connexion (SA) Pty Limited

SEPCO Communications (Pty) Limited

Tata Communications (New Zealand) Limited

Tata Communications MOVE B.V.

Tata Communications MOVE Nederland B.V.

MuCoso B.V.

NetFoundry Inc.

TCTS Senegal Limited

OASIS Smart SIM Europe SAS

Oasis Smart E-Sim Pte Ltd

TS Investments Limited

Tata SIA Airlines Limited

Tata Incorporated

Tata Investment Corporation Limited

Simto Investment Company Limited

Tata Asset Management Private Limited

Tata Asset Management (Mauritius) Private Limited

Tata Pension Management Limited

Tata Consulting Engineers Limited

Ecofirst Services Limited

TCE QSTP-LLC

Tata Engineering Consultants Saudi Arabia Company

Tata International AG, Zug

Notice
 | 57
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

TRIF Investment Management Limited

Tata Advanced Systems Limited

Aurora Integrated Systems Private Limited

Nova Integrated Systems Limited

TASL Aerostructures Private Limited

Tata Capital Limited

Tata Capital Advisors Pte. Limited

Tata Capital Financial Services Limited

Tata Capital General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Growth Fund I

Tata Capital Healthcare General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited

Tata Capital Plc

Tata Capital Pte. Limited

Tata Cleantech Capital Limited

Tata Opportunities General Partners LLP

Tata Securities Limited

Tata Capital Special Situation Fund

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund I

Tata Capital Innovations Fund

Tata Capital Growth Fund II

TCL Employee Welfare Trust

Tata Capital Growth II General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund II

Tata Capital Healthcare II General Partners LLP

Tata Housing Development Company Limited

Apex Realty Private Limited

Concept Developers & Leasing Limited

HLT Residency Private Limited

Kriday Realty Private Limited

One-Colombo Project (Private) Limited

Promont Hillside Private Limited

Smart Value Homes (Boisar) Private Limited

Tata Value Homes Limited

THDC Management Services Limited

World-One (Sri Lanka) Projects Pte. Limited

World-One Development Company Pte. Limited

Synergizers Sustainable Foundation

Technopolis Knowledge Park Limited

Princeton Infrastructure Private Limited

Ardent Properties Private Limited

Promont Hilltop Private Limited

Smart Value Homes (Peenya Project) Private Limited

Smart Value Homes (New Project) LLP

HL Promoters Private Limited

SAS Realtech LLP

Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited

Acme Living Solutions Private Limited

Notice
 | 58
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

HV Farms Private Limited

TRIF Gurgaon Housing Projects Private Limited

Wellkept Facility Mangement Services Private Limited

TRIL Roads Private Limited

TRIL Urban Transport Private Limited

Hampi Expressways Private Limited

Dharamshala Ropeway Limited

International Infrabuild Private Limited

Uchit Expressways Private Limited

Durg Shivnath Expressways Private Limited

Matheran Rope-Way Private Limited

MIA Infrastructure Private Limited

TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate One Private Limited

TRIL Bengaluru Consultants Private Limited

TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate Three Private Limited

TRIL IT4 Private Limited

Tata Trustee Company Private Limited

Niskalp Infrastructure Services Limited

India Emerging Companies Investment Limited

Inshaallah Investments Limited

Tata Autocomp Systems Limited

Automotive Stampings and Assemblies Limited

Nanjing Tata Autocomp Systems Limited

TACO Engineering Services GmbH

Ryhpez Holding (Sweden) AB

TitanX Holding AB

TitanX Engine Cooling Inc.

TitanX Engine Cooling Kunshan Co. Ltd.

TitanX Engine Cooling AB

TitanX Refrigeracão de Motores LTDA

TitanX Engine Cooling, Poland

TitanX Engine Cooling SRL

Changshu Tata AutoComp Systems Limited

Tata Toyo Radiator Limited

Tata Autocomp Hendrickson Suspensions Private Limited

TACO EV Component Solutions Private Limited

TACO Punch Powertrain Private Limited

Tata International Limited

Blackwood Hodge Zimbabwe (Private) Limited

Calsea Footwear Private Limited

Pamodzi Hotels Plc

Tata Africa (Cote D’Ivoire) SARL

Tata Africa Holdings (Ghana) Limited

TATA Africa Holdings (Kenya) Limited

Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Proprietary) Limited

Tata Africa Holdings (Tanzania) Limited

Tata Africa Services (Nigeria) Limited

Tata De Mocambique, Limitada

Notice
 | 59
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Holdings Mocambique Limitada

Tata International Metals (Americas) Limited

Tata International Metals (Asia) Limited

Tata International Metals (Guangzhou) Limited

Tata International Singapore Pte Limited

Tata South East Asia (Cambodia) Limited

Tata Uganda Limited

Tata West Asia FZE

Tata Zambia Limited

Tata Zimbabwe (Private) Limited

TIL Leather Mauritius Limited

Tata International West Asia DMCC

Motor-Hub East Africa Limited

Tata International Vietnam Company Limited

Tata International Unitech (Senegal) SARL

Tata International Canada Limited

Newshelf 1369 Pty Ltd.

Alliance Finance Corporation Limited

AFCL Ghana Limited

AFCL Premium Services Ltd.

AFCL Zambia Limited

Alliance Leasing Limited

Stryder Cycle Private Limited

AFCL RSA (Pty) Limited

TISPL Trading Company Limited

Société Financière Décentralisé Alliance Finance Corporation Senegal

Tata International Vehicle Applications Private Limited

Taj Air Limited

Impetis Biosciences Limited

Tata Teleservices Limited

Tata Tele NXTGEN Solutions Limited

NVS Technologies Limited

TTL Mobile Private Limited

Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited

Tata Digital Private Limited

Tata Payments Limited

Supermarket Grocery Supplies Private Limited

Innovative Retail Concepts Private Limited

Savis Retail Private Limited

Delyver Retail Network Private Limited

Dailyninja Delivery Services Private Limited

Tata 1mg Technologies Private Limited

Tata 1mg Healthcare Solutions Private Limited

LFS Healthcare Private Limited

Infiniti Retail Limited

Tata Fintech Private Limited

Tata Neu Private Limited

Protraviny Private Limited

Notice
 | 60
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Unistore Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

Tata Medical and Diagnostics Limited

Talace Private Limited

Air India Limited

Air India Express Limited

AIX Connect Private Limited

Tata Electronics Private Limited

Vidiyal Residency Private Limited

Tata Business Hub Limited

Tata Elxsi Limited

Ranata Hospitality Private Limited

Agratas Energy Storage Solutions Private Limited
ii. 
List of Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons Private Limited and their subsidiaries and Joint ventures & Associate 
Companies of subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or 
their subsidiaries) as on March 31, 2023
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Chemicals Limited

Rallis India Limited

Ncourage Social Enterprise Foundation

Valley Holdings Inc.

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners

TCSAP LLC

Homefield Pvt. UK Limited

TCE Group Limited

Tata Chemicals Africa Holdings Limited

Natrium Holdings Limited

Tata Chemicals Europe Limited

Winnington CHP Limited

Brunner Mond Group Limited

Tata Chemicals Magadi Limited

Northwich Resource Management Limited

Gusiute Holdings (UK) Limited

British Salt Limited

Cheshire Salt Holdings Limited

Cheshire Salt Limited

Brinefield Storage Limited

Cheshire Cavity Storage 2 Limited

New Cheshire Salt Works Limited

Tata Chemicals International Pte. Limited

Tata Chemicals (South Africa) Proprietary Limited

Magadi Railway Company Limited

Alcad

TC (Soda Ash) Partners Holdings

Tata Consumer Products Limited

Tata Consumer Products UK Group Ltd.

Tata Global Beverages Holdings Limited

Tata Global Beverages Services Ltd.

Notice
 | 61
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Consumer Products GB Ltd.

Tata Consumer Products Overseas Holdings Ltd.

Tata Global Beverages Overseas Ltd.

Lyons Tetley Ltd.

Drassington Ltd.

Teapigs Ltd.

Teapigs US LLC

Stansand Ltd.

Stansand (Brokers) Ltd.

Stansand (Africa) Ltd.

Stansand (Central Africa) Ltd.

Tata Consumer Products Polska sp.zo.o

Tata Consumer Products US Holdings Inc.

Tata Waters LLC

Tetley USA Inc.

Good Earth Corporation

Good Earth Teas Inc.

Tata Consumer Products Canada Inc.

Tata Consumer Products Australia Pty Ltd.

Earth Rules Pty Ltd.

Tata Global Beverages Investments Ltd.

Campestres Holdings Ltd.

Kahutara Holdings Ltd.

Suntyco Holding Ltd.

Onomento Co Ltd.

Tata Consumer Products Capital Ltd.

Tata Coffee Ltd.

Consolidated Coffee Inc.

Tata Coffee Vietnam Company Ltd.

Eight O’Clock Holdings Inc.

Eight O’Clock Coffee Company.

Tata Tea Extractions Inc.

Tata Tea Holdings Private Ltd.

NourishCo Beverages Ltd.

Tata Consumer Soulfull Private Limited

Tata SmartFoodz Limited

TRIL Constructions Ltd.

TCPL Beverages & Foods Limited

Joekels Tea Packers Proprietary Limited

Tetley ACI (Bangladesh) Ltd

Tata Steel Limited

ABJA Investment Co. Pte. Ltd.

Adityapur Toll Bridge Company Limited

Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited

Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd.

Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited

Haldia Water Management Limited

Kalimati Global Shared Services Limited

Mohar Export Services Pvt. Ltd

Rujuvalika Investments Limited

Tata Steel Mining Limited

Tata Korf Engineering Services Ltd.

Notice
 | 62
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Metaliks Ltd.

Tata Steel Long Products Limited

T Steel Holdings Pte. Ltd.

T S Global Holdings Pte Ltd.

Orchid Netherlands (No.1) B.V.

&Eastern Steel Fabricators Philippines, Inc.

The Siam Industrial Wire Company Ltd.

TSN Wires Co., Ltd.

Tata Steel Europe Limited

Apollo Metals Limited

Blastmega Limited

British Steel Corporation Limited

British Steel Directors (Nominees) Limited

British Steel Nederland International B.V.

C V Benine

Catnic GmbH

Catnic Limited

Tata Steel Mexico SA de CV

Cogent Power Limited

Corbeil Les Rives SCI

Corby (Northants) & District Water Company Limited

Corus CNBV Investments

Corus Engineering Steels (UK) Limited

Corus Engineering Steels Holdings Limited

Corus Engineering Steels Limited

Corus Group Limited

Corus Holdings Limited

Corus International (Overseas Holdings) Limited

Corus International Limited

Corus International Romania SRL.

Corus Investments Limited

Corus Ireland Limited

Corus Liaison Services (India) Limited

Corus Management Limited

Corus Property

Corus UK Healthcare Trustee Limited

Crucible Insurance Company Limited

Degels GmbH

Demka B.V.

00026466 Limited

Fischer Profil GmbH

Gamble Simms Metals Limited

Grant Lyon Eagre Limited

H E Samson Limited

Hadfields Holdings Limited

Halmstad Steel Service Centre AB

Hammermega Limited

Hille & Muller GmbH

Hille & Muller USA Inc.

Hoogovens USA Inc.

Huizenbezit “Breesaap” B.V.

Inter Metal Distribution SAS

Notice
 | 63
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Layde Steel S.L.

London Works Steel Company Limited

Montana Bausysteme AG

Naantali Steel Service Centre OY

Norsk Stal Tynnplater AS

Norsk Stal Tynnplater AB

Orb Electrical Steels Limited

Oremco Inc.

Plated Strip (International) Limited

Rafferty-Brown Steel Co Inc Of Conn.

Runmega Limited

S A B Profiel B.V.

S A B Profil GmbH

Service Center Gelsenkirchen GmbH

Service Centre Maastricht B.V.

Societe Europeenne De Galvanisation (Segal) Sa

Staalverwerking en Handel B.V.

Stewarts And Lloyds (Overseas) Limited

Surahammar Bruks AB

Swinden Housing Association Limited

Tata Steel Belgium Packaging Steels N.V.

Tata Steel Belgium Services N.V.

Tata Steel Denmark Byggsystemer A/S

Tata Steel France Holdings SAS

Tata Steel Germany GmbH

Tata Steel IJmuiden BV

Tata Steel International (Americas) Holdings Inc

Tata Steel International (Americas) Inc

Tata Steel International (Czech Republic) S.R.O

Tata Steel International (France) SAS

Tata Steel International (Germany) GmbH

Tata Steel International (South America) Representações LTDA

Tata Steel International (Italia) SRL

Tata Steel International (Middle East) FZE

Tata Steel International Limited

Tata Steel International (Poland) sp Zoo

Tata Steel International (Sweden) AB

Tata Steel International (India) Limited

Tata Steel International Iberica SA

Tata Steel Istanbul Metal Sanayi ve Ticaret AS

Tata Steel Maubeuge SAS

Tata Steel Nederland BV

Tata Steel Nederland Consulting & Technical Services BV

Tata Steel Nederland Services BV

Tata Steel Nederland Technology BV

Tata Steel Nederland Tubes BV

Tata Steel Netherlands Holdings B.V.

Tata Steel Norway Byggsystemer A/S

Tata Steel Sweden Byggsystem AB

Tata Steel UK Consulting Limited

Tata Steel UK Holdings Limited

Tata Steel UK Limited

Notice
 | 64
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Steel USA Inc.

The Newport And South Wales Tube Company Limited

Thomas Processing Company

Thomas Steel Strip Corp.

TS South Africa Sales Office Proprietary Limited

Tulip UK Holdings (No.2) Limited

Tulip UK Holdings (No.3) Limited

U.E.S. Bright Bar Limited

UK Steel Enterprise Limited

Unitol SAS

Fischer Profil Produktions -und-Vertriebs - GmbH

Al Rimal Mining LLC

TSMUK Limited

T S Canada Capital Ltd

Tata Steel Minerals Canada Limited

Tata Steel (Thailand) Public Company Limited

Tata Steel Manufacturing (Thailand) Public Company Limited

The Siam Construction Steel Company Limited

The Siam Iron and Steel (2001) Company Limited

T S Global Procurement Company Pte. Ltd.

Tata Steel International (Shanghai) Ltd.

TS Asia (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Tata Steel Advanced Materials Limited

Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited

Tayo Rolls Limited

The Tata Pigments Limited

The Tinplate Company of India Limited

Tata Steel Foundation

Jamshedpur Football and Sporting Private Limited

Bhubaneshwar Power Private Limited

Angul Energy Limited

Tata Steel Support Services Limited

Bhushan Steel (South) Ltd.

Tata Steel Technical Services Limited

Bhushan Steel (Australia) PTY Ltd.

Bowen Energy PTY Ltd.

Bowen Coal PTY Ltd.

Bowen Consolidated PTY Ltd.

Creative Port Development Private Limited

Subarnarekha Port Private Limited

Ceramat Private Limited

Tata Steel TABB Limited

S & T Mining Company Limited

Medica TS Hospital Pvt. Ltd.

Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited

The Indian Hotels Company Limited

Piem Hotels Limited

Benares Hotels Limited

United Hotels Limited

Roots Corporation Limited

Inditravel Limited

Taj Trade & Transport Company Limited

Notice
 | 65
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

KTC Hotels Limited

Northern India Hotels Limited

Taj Enterprises Limited

Skydeck Properties and Developers Private Limited

Sheena Investments Private Limited

ELEL Hotels and Investments Limited

Luthria and Lalchandani Hotel and Properties Private Limited

Ideal Ice & Cold Storage Company Limited

Genness Hospitality Private Limited

Qurio Hospitality Private Limited

United Overseas Holdings Inc.

St. James Court Hotel Limited

Taj International Hotels Limited

Taj International Hotels (H.K.) Limited

Piem International (HK) Limited

IHOCO BV.

IHMS Hotels (SA)(Pty) Limited

Kadisland Hospitality Private Limited

Suisland Hospitality Private Limited

Good Hope Palace Hotels Proprietary Limited

Zarrenstar Hospitality Private Limited

The Tata Power Company Limited

Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited

NDPL Infra Limited

TP Ajmer Distribution Limited

Tata Power Jamshedpur Distribution Limited

Tata Power Solar Systems Limited

Chirasthayee Saurya Limited

Tata Power Trading Company Limited

Maithon Power Limited

Tata Power Green Energy Limited

Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited

TP Wind Power Limited

Supa Windfarm Limited

Nivade Windfarm Limited

Poolavadi Windfarm Limited

Vagarai Windfarm Limited

Walwhan Renewable Energy Limited

Walwhan Solar MP Limited

Walwhan Solar PB Limited

Walwhan Solar TN Limited

Walwhan Wind RJ Limited

Clean Sustainable Solar Energy Private Limited

MI Mysolar24 Private Limited

Walwhan Solar BH Limited

Walwhan Solar MH Limited

Walwhan Solar AP Limited

Walwhan Solar KA Limited

Walwhan Energy RJ Limited

Walwhan Urja Anjar Limited

Walwhan Solar RJ Limited

Northwest Energy Private Limited

Notice
 | 66
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Walwhan Solar Raj Limited

Solarsys Renewable Energy Private Limited

Dreisatz Mysolar 24 Private Limited

Walwhan Urja India Limited

Walwhan Solar Energy GJ Limited

Nelco Limited

Nelco Network Products Limited

Trust Energy Resources Pte. Limited

PT Sumber Energi Andalan TBK

Tata Power International Pte. Ltd.

Far Eastern Natural Resources LLC

Khopoli Investments Limited

Bhivpuri Investments Limited

Bhira Investments Pte Limited

TP Renewable Microgrid Limited

TP Solapur Limited

TP Kirnali Limited

TP Central Odisha Distribution Limited

TP Kirnali Solar Limited

TP Solapur Solar Limited

TP Saurya Ltd

TP Akkalkot Renewable Ltd

TP Roofurja Renewable Limited

TP Western Odisha Distribution Limited

TP Southern Odisha Distribution Limited

TP Northern Odisha Distribution Limited

TP Solapur Saurya Limited

PT Andalan Group Power

PT Sumber Power Nusantara

PT Indopower Energi Abadi

PT Andalan Power Teknikatama

TP Solar Limited

TP Nanded Limited

TP Green Nature Limited

TP Adhrit Solar Limited

TP Arya Saurya Limited

TP Saurya Bandita Limited

TP Ekadash Limited

TP Govardhan Creatives Limited

TP Narmada Solar Limited

TP Bhaskar Renewables Limited

TP Atharva Solar Limited

TP VIVAGREEN LIMITED

TP VARDHAMAN SURYA LIMITED

TP Kaunteya Saurya Limited

Trent Limited

Nahar Retail Trading Services Limited

Fiora Business Support Services Limited

Trent Global Holdings Limited

Fiora Hypermarket Limited

Fiora Online Limited

Booker India Limited

Notice
 | 67
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Booker Satnam Wholesale Limited

Voltas Limited

Voltas Netherlands B.V.

Lalbuksh Voltas Engineering Services & Trading L.L.C.

Weathermaker FZE

Saudi Ensas Company for Engineering Services W.L.L.

Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited

Voltas Qatar W.L.L.

Voltas Oman SPC

Universal MEP Projects Pte Limited

Agro Foods Punjab Limited

Westerwork Engineers Limited

HI-Volt Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.

Titan Company Limited

TCL Watches Switzerland AG

Titan Engineering & Automation Limited

Titan Watch Company Hong Kong Limited

CaratLane Trading Private Limited

Titan Holdings International FZCO

Titan Global Retail L.L.C

Titan Commodity Trading Limited

StudioC Inc

TEAL USA Inc

TCL North America Inc

Titan International QFZ LLC

Ferbine Private Limited

Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited

Lokmanaya Hospital Private Limited

Novalead Pharma Private Limited

Vortex Engineering Private Limited

Sea6 Energy Private Limited

Alef Mobitech Solutions Private Limited

Tema India Limited

Kapsons Industries Private Limited

Tata Technologies Limited

TVS Supply Chain Solutions Limited

Fincare Business Services Limited

Tata Projects Limited

Artson Engineering Limited (AEL)

Ujjwal Pune Limited

TPL-CIL Construction LLP

TCC Construction Private Limited

TP Luminaire Private Limited

TQ Cert Services Private Limited

TQ Services Europe GmbH

Industrial Quality Services, LLC Oman

Ind Project Engineering (Shanghai) Co Ltd

TPL-Asara Engineering South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

TPL INFRA PROJECTS (BRAZIL) PROJETOS DE INFRAESTRUTURA E ENGENHARIA LTDA

Anderson Diagnostic Services Pvt. Ltd.

Indusface Private Limited

Linux Laboratories Private Limited

Notice
 | 68
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Fincare Small Finance Bank Limited

Atulaya Healthcare Private Limited

Cnergyis Infotech India Private Limited

Deeptek Inc, a Delaware Corporation

Speech and Software Technologies (India) Private Limited

The Associated Building Company Limited

Tata Enterprises (Overseas) AG

Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited

A.O. Avron

United Telecom Limited

STT Global Data Centres India Private Limited

Smart ICT Services Private Limited

Cellcure Cancer Centre Private Limited

Tata Overseas Development Co. Ltd.

Inter Consumer Goods AG

Tata International UK Ltd.

Strategic Energy Technology Systems Private Limited

Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited

Tata Play Limited

Actve Digital Services Private Limited

Tata Play Broadband Private Limited

TSBB Voice Private Limited

Tata Industries Limited

Qubit Investments Pte. Limited

Flisom – AG

915 Labs Inc

Flisom Hungary Kft

Smart ClassEdge Systems Limited

HELA Systems Private Limited

Tata Lockheed Martin Aerostructures Limited

Tata Sikorsky Aerospace Limited

Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited

LTH Milcom Private Limited

Arvind and Smart Value Homes LLP

Sohna City LLP

Kolkata-One Excelton Private Limited

Sector 113 Gatevida Developers Private Limited

One Bangalore Luxury Projects LLP

Land kart Builders Private Limited

Pune Solapur Expressways Private Limited

Arrow Infraestate Pvt Limited

Gurgaon Constructwell Private Limited

Gurgaon Realtech Limited

Infopark Properties Limited

Mikado Realtors Private Limited

Industrial Minerals and Chemicals Company Private Limited

Pune IT City Metro Rail Limited

Tata Ficosa Automotive Systems Private Limited

Tata AutoComp GY Batteries Private Limited

Air International TTR Thermal Systems Private Limited

Tata Autocomp Katcon Exhaust Systems Private Limited

TM Automotive Seating Systems Private Limited

Notice
 | 69
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

TACO Sasken Automotive Electronics Limited

Tata Autocomp SECO Powertrain Private Limited

Tata AutoComp Gotion Green Energy Solutions Private Limited

TACO Prestolite Electric Private Limited

Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited

Tata International GST AutoLeather Limited

Women in Transport

Ferguson Place (Proprietary) Limited

Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.

TRIL Infopark Limited

TM Railway Seating Private Limited
iii. List of subsidiaries of Tejas Networks Limited as on March 31, 2023
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tejas Communication Pte Limited

Tejas Communications (Nigeria) Limited

Saankhya Labs Private Limited

Saankhya Labs Inc

Saankhya Strategic Electronics Private Limited
iv. 
List of subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited and Jaguar Land Rover Limited as on March 31, 2023
Sr. 
No.
Name

TML Business Services Limited

Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC

Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited

TMF Holdings Limited

TML Holdings Pte. Limited

Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A.

Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA

Trilix S.r.l.

Tata Precision Industries Pte. Limited

Tata Technologies Limited

Tata Motors Body Solutions Limited (Name changed from Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited w.e.f. December 30, 2022)

Jaguar Land Rover Technology and Business Services India Private Limited

TML CV Mobility Solutions Limited

Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited

Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution Company Limited

Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited

Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited

PT Tata Motors Indonesia

PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia

Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc

Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH

Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited

JLR Nominee Company Limited

Notice
 | 70
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH

Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC

Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV

Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veículos e Peças, Lda.

Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa

Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited

Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC

Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS

Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited

Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos LTDA

Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia)

Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Ventures Limited

Jaguar Land Rover India Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL

Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV

Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited

Jaguar Cars Limited

Land Rover Exports Limited

Land Rover Ireland Limited

The Daimler Motor Company Limited

Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited

S.S. Cars Limited

The Lanchester Motor Company Limited

Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o

Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Jaguar Racing Limited

InMotion Ventures Limited

In-Car Ventures Limited

InMotion Ventures 2 Limited

InMotion Ventures 3 Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Colombia S.A.S

Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Servicios México, S.A. de C.V.

Jaguar Land Rover México, S.A.P.I. de C.V.

Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC

Tata Technologies Pte Limited

Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited

Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited

INCAT International Plc.

Tata Technologies Gmbh

Tata Technologies Europe Limited

Tata Technologies Nordics AB

Notice
 | 71
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name

Tata Technologies Inc.

Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Cambric Limited

Tata Technologies SRL Romania

Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited

Tata Motors Finance Limited

Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT

Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH

Brabo Robotics and Automation Limited

Bowler Motors Limited

Jaguar Land Rover (Ningbo) Trading Co. Limited

Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Limited

Tata Passenger Electric Mobility Limited

TML Smart City Mobility Solutions Limited

TML Smart City Mobility Solutions (J&K) Private Limited
List of subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) as on March 31, 2023
Sr. 
No.
Name

APTOnline Limited

C-Edge Technologies Limited

MahaOnline Limited

MP Online Limited

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

Directors’ Report
 | 72
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Directors’ Report
To the Members,
The Directors present this Integrated Annual Report of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or TCS) along 
with the audited financial statements for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023.
The consolidated performance of the Company and its 
subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
Financial results
(` crore)
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial Year 
2022-23
(FY 2023)
Financial Year 
2021-22
(FY 2022)
Financial Year 
2022-23
(FY 2023)
Financial Year 
2021-22
(FY 2022)
Revenue from operations
1,90,354
1,60,341
2,25,458
1,91,754
Other income
5,328
7,486
3,449
4,018
Total income
1,95,682
1,67,827
2,28,907
1,95,772
Expenses
Operating expenditure
1,39,357
1,14,096
1,66,199
1,38,697
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,940
3,522
5,022
4,604
Total expenses
1,43,297
1,17,618
1,71,221
1,43,301
Profit before finance costs and tax
52,385
50,209
57,686
52,471
Finance costs

Profit before tax
51,690
49,723
56,907
51,687
Tax expense
12,584
11,536
14,604
13,238
Profit for the year
39,106
38,187
42,303
38,449
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
39,106
38,187
42,147
38,327
Non-controlling interests

Opening balance of retained earnings
68,949
70,928
78,158
79,586
Closing balance of retained earnings
62,228
68,949
74,722
78,158
Return of surplus funds to Shareholders
 
In line with the practice of returning 80 to 100 percent free 
cash flow to shareholders and based on the Company’s 
performance, the Directors have declared three interim 
dividends of ₹8 per equity share and a special dividend of 
₹67 aggregating to ₹91 per equity share involving a cash 
outflow of ₹33,297 crore during the year. The Directors 
have also recommended a final dividend of ₹24 per equity 
share, the final dividend on equity shares, if approved by 
the Members, would involve a cash outflow of 
₹8,782 crore. The total shareholders payout excluding the 
buyback tax of ₹4,192 crore paid at the beginning of 
FY 2023, would involve a total cash outflow of 
₹42,079 crore at ₹115 per equity share, resulting in a 
dividend payout of 107.6 percent of the standalone profits 
of the Company.
 
For FY 2022, the Company paid a total dividend of ₹43 per 
equity share, which resulted in an outflow of ₹15,818 crore 
and a dividend payout of 41.4 percent of the standalone 
profits of the Company. In addition to the above, 
the Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares 
at a price of ₹4,500 per equity share for an aggregate 
consideration of ₹18,000 crore. The offer size of the 
buyback was 21.03 percent and 19.06 percent of the 
aggregate paid-up equity share capital and free reserves 
as per audited condensed standalone interim financial 
statements and audited condensed consolidated interim 
financial statements of the Company as at 
December 31, 2021, respectively.
 
The Dividend Distribution Policy, in terms of Regulation 43A 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available 
on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/Dividend.

Directors’ Report
 | 73
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
3. Transfer to reserves
 
The closing balance of the retained earnings of the 
Company for FY 2023, after all appropriation and 
adjustments was ₹62,228 crore.
Company’s performance
 
On a consolidated basis, the revenue for FY 2023 was 
₹2,25,458 crore, higher by 17.6 percent over the previous 
year’s revenue of ₹1,91,754 crore. The profit after tax (PAT) 
attributable to shareholders and non-controlling interests 
for FY 2023 and FY 2022 was ₹42,303 crore and 
₹38,449 crore, respectively.
 
The PAT attributable to shareholders for FY 2023 was 
₹42,147 crore registering a growth of 10.0 percent over the 
PAT of ₹38,327 crore in FY 2022.
 
On a standalone basis, the revenue for FY 2023 was 
₹1,90,354 crore, higher by 18.7 percent over the previous 
year’s revenue of ₹1,60,341 crore in FY 2022. The PAT 
attributable to shareholders in FY 2023 was ₹39,106 crore 
registering a growth of 2.4 percent over the PAT of 
₹38,187 crore in FY 2022.
Quality initiatives
 
The Company continues to strengthen its commitment 
to the highest levels of quality, superior customer 
experience, best-in-class service management, robust 
information security and privacy practices and mature 
business continuity management.
 
The relevance of TCS’ integrated Quality Management 
System (iQMS™) is continually evaluated for new service 
offerings, emerging delivery methodologies, industry 
best practices and latest technologies, and adequately 
upgraded to provide outstanding value and experience to 
its customers.
 
TCS has successfully achieved Maturity Level 5 in CMMI 
Enterprise Wide assessment for Development. TCS has 
successfully completed the annual ISO surveillance audit 
and has been recommended for continuation of its 
enterprise-wide certification. TCS’s enterprise 
ISO certification scope includes conformance to the 
following globally recognized standards: ISO 9001:2015 
(Quality Management), ISO 20000-1:2018 (IT Service 
Management), ISO 22301:2019 (Business Continuity 
Management), ISO 27001:2013 (Information Security 
Management), ISO 27017:2015 (Information Security 
Controls for Cloud Services), ISO 27018:2019 (Protection 
of PII in Public Clouds as PII Processors), ISO 27701:2019 
(Privacy Information Management Systems), AS 9100:2016 
(Aerospace Industry), ISO 13485:2016 (Medical Devices) 
and TL 9000–SV R6.2/R5.7 (Telecom Industry).
 
The customer-centricity, focus on their growth and 
transformation, rigor in operations and commitment 
to delivery excellence have resulted in sustained high 
customer satisfaction levels in the periodic surveys 
conducted by the Company. This is validated by top 
rankings in third party surveys as well. TCS achieved the top 
position in Whitelane customer satisfaction survey for the 
tenth consecutive year, with an overall satisfaction score of 
83 percent compared to the industry average of 
75 percent.
 
TCS has received multiple external awards this year, 
in the areas of quality and data privacy. TCS won the Data 
Security Council of India (DSCI) Excellence Award 2022 in 
category Best Privacy Practices in Organization, two years 
in a row; PICCASO Privacy Awards Europe 2022 for Best 
Privacy Programme; Gold award won by BFSI Cognitive 
Business Operations - IT IS Team in 8th National Institute 
for Quality and Reliability (NIQR) Annual Six Sigma/Task 
Achievement Competition; Customer Experience Team of 
the Year Award by Global Sourcing Association – UK.
Subsidiary companies
 
On March 31, 2023, the Company has 51 subsidiaries 
and there has been no material change in the nature of 
the business of the subsidiaries. There are no associates or 
joint venture companies within the meaning of Section 2(6) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
 
On May 18, 2022, Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific 
Pte. Ltd. acquired additional 6.8 percent ownership interest 
in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. (TCS China) 
thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.
 
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS was liquidated 
effective July 27, 2022.
 
On March 16, 2023, TCS China acquired 100 percent 
ownership interest in TCS Financial Solutions (Beijing) Co., 
Ltd. from TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, 
a statement containing the salient features of financial 
statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in 
Form No. AOC-1 is attached to the financial statements of 
the Company.
 
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the financial statements of the Company, consolidated 
financial statements along with relevant documents 
and separate audited financial statements in respect of 
subsidiaries, are available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations.
Directors’ responsibility statement
 
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of its knowledge and ability, 
confirm that:
 
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures;
 
ii. 
They have selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company at the end of the financial year and 
of the profit of the Company for that period;

Directors’ Report
 | 74
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
iii. 
They have taken proper and sufficient care 
for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
 
iv. 
They have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
 
They have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively;
 
vi. 
They have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
 
Based on the framework of internal financial controls 
and compliance systems established and maintained 
by the Company, the work performed by the internal, 
statutory and secretarial auditors and external consultants, 
including the audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting by the statutory auditors and the 
reviews performed by management and the relevant board 
committees, including the audit committee, the Board 
is of the opinion that the Company’s internal financial 
controls were adequate and effective during FY 2023.
Directors and key managerial personnel
 
As on March 31, 2023, the Company has nine Directors 
comprising of two Executive Directors and seven 
Non-Executive Directors out of which five are Independent 
Directors. There are two women directors.
 
On April 16, 2022, the Members approved the 
re-appointment of Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813) and 
N G Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) as the CEO and MD and 
COO and ED, respectively.
 
On February 12, 2023, the Members approved the 
re-appointment of Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla 
(DIN 03611983) as an Independent Director. In the opinion 
of the Board, he is a person of integrity, fulfils requisite 
conditions as per applicable laws and is independent of the 
management of the Company.
 
Rajesh Gopinathan would relinquish his position of CEO 
and MD of the Company with effect from June 1, 2023. The 
Board places on record its appreciation of the invaluable 
services of Rajesh Gopinathan as the CEO and MD.
 
The Board appointed K Krithivasan (DIN 10106739) 
as the Chief Executive Officer Designate with effect from 
March 16, 2023 and as CEO and MD with effect from June 
1, 2023 for a period of five years, subject to approval of the 
Members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
K Krithivasan heads the Banking, Financial Services, and 
Insurance (BFSI) Business Group at the Company and has 
been part of the global technology sector for over 34 years, 
having joined the Company in 1989. 
 
Aarthi Subramanian (DIN 07121802) retires by rotation and 
being eligible, offers herself for re-appointment. 
 
A resolution seeking shareholders’ approval for their 
appointment/re-appointment along with other required 
details forms part of the Notice.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, 
the Independent Directors have submitted declarations 
that each of them meets the criteria of independence 
as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules 
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. There has been no change in 
the circumstances affecting their status as independent 
directors of the Company.
 
During the year under review, the non-executive directors 
of the Company had no pecuniary relationship 
or transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees, 
commission and reimbursement of expenses, if any.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, 
Rajesh Gopinathan, CEO and MD, N G Subramaniam, 
COO and ED, Samir Seksaria, Chief Financial Officer and 
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary are the 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 
March 31, 2023.
Number of meetings of the Board
 
Six meetings of the Board were held during the year. 
For details of meetings of the Board, please refer to the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report.
10. Board evaluation
 
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation 
of its own performance, board committees, and individual 
directors pursuant to the provisions of the Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
 
The performance of the board was evaluated by the Board 
after seeking inputs from all the directors on the basis 
of criteria such as the board composition and structure, 
effectiveness of board processes, information and 
functioning, etc.
 
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the 
Board after seeking inputs from the committee members 
on the basis of criteria such as the composition of 
committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
 
The above criteria are broadly based on the Guidance Note 
on Board Evaluation issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India on January 5, 2017. In a separate meeting of 
Independent Directors, Performance of Non-Independent 
directors, the Board as a whole and Chairman of the 
Company was evaluated, taking into account the views 
of executive directors and non-executive directors.
 
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the performance of individual 
directors on the basis of criteria such as the contribution 
of the individual director to the board and committee 

Directors’ Report
 | 75
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, 
meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs 
in meetings, etc.
 
At the board meeting that followed the meeting of the 
independent directors and meeting of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the performance of the Board, 
its Committees, and individual directors was also discussed. 
Performance evaluation of independent directors was done 
by the entire Board, excluding the independent director 
being evaluated.
11. Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and 
other details
 
The Company’s policy on appointment of directors is 
available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.
 
The policy on remuneration and other matters provided in 
Section 178(3) of the Act has been disclosed 
in the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report and is also available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
12. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
 
TCS’ CSR initiatives and activities are aligned to the 
requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
 
A brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company and the 
initiatives undertaken by the Company on CSR activities 
during the year are set out in Annexure I of this report in 
the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on 
the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
 
For other details regarding the CSR Committee, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report. 
13. Internal financial control systems and their adequacy
 
The details in respect of internal financial control and their 
adequacy are included in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which is a part of this report.
14. Audit committee
 
The details pertaining to the composition of the Audit 
Committee are included in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which is a part of this report.
15. Auditors
 
At the twenty-seventh AGM held on June 9, 2022, the 
Members approved the re-appointment of 
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No.101248W/W-100022) as Statutory Auditors of the 
Company to hold office for a period of five years from the 
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the thirtysecond AGM to be held in the year 2027.
16. Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report
 
The statutory auditor’s report and the secretarial auditor’s 
report do not contain any qualifications, reservations, 
or adverse remarks or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report 
is attached to this report as Annexure II.
17. Risk management
 
The Board of Directors of the Company has a 
Risk Management Committee to frame, implement and 
monitor the risk management plan for the Company.
 
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
the risk management plan and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee has additional oversight in the area 
of financial risks and controls. The major risks identified 
by the businesses and functions are systematically 
addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis. 
The development and implementation of risk management 
policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which forms part of this report.
18. Vigil Mechanism
 
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy and has 
established the necessary vigil mechanism for directors 
and employees in conformation with Section 177(9) of the 
Act and Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, to report 
concerns about unethical behaviour. This Policy is available 
on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP.
19. Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments
 
The particulars of loans, guarantees and investments 
as per Section 186 of the Act by the Company, have been 
disclosed in the financial statements.
20. Transactions with related parties
 
None of the transactions with related parties fall under 
the scope of Section 188(1) of the Act. Accordingly, the 
disclosure of related party transactions as required under 
Section 134(3)(h) of the Act in Form AOC-2 is not applicable 
to the Company for FY 2023 and hence does not form part 
of this report.
 
Pursuant to SEBI Listing Regulations, the resolution for 
seeking approval of the shareholders on material related 
party transactions is being placed at the AGM.
21. Annual Return
 
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)(a) 
of the Act, the Annual Return as on March 31, 2023 
is available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/annualreturn-22-23.
22. Particulars of employees
 
The information under Section 197 of the Act read with 
Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014:

Directors’ Report
 | 76
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and 
percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
in the financial year:
Name
Ratio to median remuneration
% increase in remuneration in 
the financial year
Non-executive Directors:
N Chandrasekaran*
O P Bhatt
41.16
10.41
Aarthi Subramanian#
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
37.10
10.80
Hanne Sorensen
37.32
11.46
Keki Mistry
41.03
9.80
Don Callahan
37.23
10.76
Executive Directors:
Rajesh Gopinathan
427.10
13.17
N G Subramaniam
345.68
14.08
Chief Financial Officer:
Samir Seksaria
Company Secretary:
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
 
 
As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company and hence not 
stated.
 
 
In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company and hence not stated.
 
 
Remuneration received in FY 2023 is not comparable with remuneration received in FY 2022 (for part of the year) and 
hence not stated.
 
 b. The percentage increase in the median remuneration 
of employees in the financial year is 5.11 percent.
 
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of 
Company are 6,14,795.
 
The average annual increase was in the range of 
5-8 percent in India. However, during the course 
of the year, the total increase is in the range of 
6-9 percent, after accounting for promotions and 
other event based compensation revisions. 
Employees outside India received a wage increase 
varying from 1.5 to 5.5 percent.
 
 
The increase in remuneration is in line with the 
market trends in the respective countries. In order 
to ensure that remuneration reflects the Company’s 
performance, the performance pay is also linked 
to organization performance and individual utilization 
in addition to individual performance.
 
 
Increase in the managerial remuneration for the year 
was 13.58 percent.
 
The Company affirms that the remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy of the Company.
 
The statement containing names of top ten employees 
in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars 
of employees as required under Section 197(12) 
of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in a 
separate annexure forming part of this report.
 
 
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. 
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure 
is open for inspection and any Member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
23. Integrated Report
 
The Company has voluntarily provided Integrated Report, 
which encompasses both financial and non-financial 
information to enable the Members to take well informed 
decisions and have a better understanding of the 
Company’s long term perspective. The Report also touches 
upon aspects such as organisation’s strategy, governance 
framework, performance and prospects of value creation 
based on the five forms of capital viz. financial capital, 
intellectual capital, human capital, social capital and natural 
capital.

Directors’ Report
 | 77
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
24. Disclosure requirements
 
As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate Governance 
Report with the Auditors’ Certificate thereon, and the 
integrated Management Discussion and Analysis, the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) 
form part of the Director’s Report.
 
The BRSR indicates the Company’s performance against 
the principles of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct’. This would enable the Members to 
have an insight into Environmental, Social and Governance 
initiatives of the Company.
 
The Company has devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
25. Deposits from public
 
The Company has not accepted any deposits from public 
and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest 
on deposits from public was outstanding as on the date 
of the balance sheet.
26. Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo
 
Conservation of energy
 
The Company is committed towards conservation of energy 
and climate action which is reaffirmed in its Environmental 
Sustainability policy 
(https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Sustainability).
 
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve 
the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included 
higher energy efficiencies in heating, ventilation, and air 
conditioning (HVAC) systems, uninterruptible power supply 
(UPS), LEDs, motors, chillers and Energy Monitoring and 
Analytics (Clever Energy + Resource Oprtimization Center) 
which resulted in energy savings of 4,219 MWh, equivalent 
to 3,016 tCO2e reduction during FY 2023.
 
Initiatives in green IT focussed on data center and IT device 
consolidation and optimization to reduce the carbon 
footprint. Our data centers had a weighted average power 
utilisation effectiveness (PUE) of 1.66 during the year. In 
addition to this, the Company ensures energy efficiency of 
the equipment it procures.
 
The Company continues to leverage the TCS’ IoT-based 
Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever 
EnergyTM) that involves real time monitoring to optimization 
of operational energy efficiency across all offices.
 
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year 
remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3.44 percent 
of total electricity use in the reporting year. The company 
increased the renewable energy procurement through 
switch over to green tariffs for its operations in several 
states in India and addition to open access power purchase 
agreements (PPA). The renewable energy procurement 
has resulted in an increase in renewable energy use to 
55.2 percent of total energy use.
 
TCS is certified to ISO 50001:2018 standards for Energy 
Management Systems (EnMS) across 19 campuses in India 
of which 14 campuses were included in FY 2023 ensuring 
our commitment to energy conservation and management.
 
The above energy efficiency and renewable energy 
procurement efforts helped achieve a year-on-year 
reduction in absolute carbon footprint (across Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) of TCS’ global operations by 12.4 percent. The 
Company has achieved a 71 percent reduction in absolute 
emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) when compared to the 
base year of FY 2016 thereby achieving the 2025 target 
(of 70 percent reduction) ahead of time. The electricity 
consumption across TCS operations increased by 33.3 
percent compared to FY 2022. This is due to increased 
resumption of operations in FY 2023 compared to FY 2022 
and inclusion of 22 locations globally in the reporting 
boundary during the current year.
 
The Company has achieved carbon neutrality across 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 in Asia Pacific*, Europe, North 
America, UK & Ireland**, Latin America, Middle East & 
Africa regions during the reporting year. 
 
Continued focus on the above initiatives will enable steer 
the Company towards achieving its carbon target to 
become net zero by 2030.
 
Technology absorption, adoption and innovation
 
Research & Development (R&D): Specific areas in which 
R&D was carried out by the Company
 
With innovation being central to the Company’s purpose 
statement TCS Research, TCS PACE™ and TCS Co-Innovation 
Network(COIN)™ adopted many initiatives to address 
customer needs and create impact.
 
In its fifth decade, TCS Research continued to expand its 
foundational research in computing, and its intersection 
with the sciences. As part of physical sciences research, 
TCS focused on formulation of new materials with 
applications in batteries, catalysis and industrial effluents. 
Teams also worked on carbon capture, digital twins for 
continuous manufacture of biopharma, and emission 
reduction in industries. Generative Design research and 
realisation of this with complex problems with customers 
showed that algorithmic methods, including AI, can 
transform early stage design of complex systems with 
significant benefits over the traditional methods. In the life 
sciences area, the company explored generative design 
across drug design and synthesis, molecules 
and formulations, and manufacturing processes. 
TCS Research used diffusion models as well as large 
language models for computational creativity. The 
software research teams worked on learning aided 
adaptive software, digital transformation of applications, 
and AI in the software development lifecycle and data 
analytics. Cyber security remains an important area of 
*Excluding Japan 
**Excluding Diligenta

Directors’ Report
 | 78
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
research; AI for cybersecurity, privacy enabled service 
operations, privacy preserving biometrics and trustworthy 
AI initiatives are in progress. Research in AI was oriented 
around the latest in Generative Large Language Models, 
to create techniques for controlled code generation, 
question answering, consistent image generation, solving 
optimisation problems and other core AI problems.
 
The Company expanded its space tech research, working 
on on-board computing for remote sensing satellites 
to reduce data and bandwidth for ground communication; 
it is also leveraging neuromorphic computing for low 
power computing at the edge. In the area of embedded 
devices and intelligent systems, research continued solving 
customer problems in machine, material, infrastructure, 
and people sensing, using AIoT and edge computing. 
Teams also worked on meta materials for next gen 
communications, computational sensing/imaging 
and neuromorphic computing.
 
TCS deepened its expertise in heterogeneous computing. 
The high performance computing team is working on 
accelerating runtime performance of computing systems 
while minimizing energy consumption and costs. 
Quantum computing, resilience on cloud with data 
residency, compliance and security on cloud are other 
areas of focus.
 
In the area of behavioural and business sciences, 
the Company created tools for emotional wellbeing of 
employees, studied consumer behaviour in retail and 
gamified learning. Research also provided intervention 
options for caregivers of elders in connected homes.
 
Quantum computing initiatives progressed with Proofs 
of Concepts and customer engagements. Research based 
offerings in robotics are moving to deployment for logistics 
and warehouses. TCS’ Digital twins are now integrating 
industrial, data driven, physics-based and enterprise 
models to offer comprehensive insights to customers.
 
TCS’ IP based offerings made headway. TCS TwinX™, 
an AI powered enterprise digital twin platform for risk-free 
business simulations, is available on Google Cloud. 
The company’s substantial Investments in IP, as in MFDM™, 
TCS Cognix™, ignio™, Pace Ports™, and Dedicated Cloud 
Units, was seen as a key strength by analysts. 
TCS Avapresence, a cloud-based virtual event platform with 
extended reality(XR) elements, was leveraged by customers 
for product launches. TCS Conversa™ and TCS GoSafe™ 
have multiple implementations across the globe; 
TCS CrystallusTM adoption and Industry Innovations 
continue to resonate well with customers in their 
enterprise transformation journey. Semiconductor 
engineering, 5G engineering and software product 
engineering services made a mark and won awards. 
The company’s research and innovation in meta-materialbased antenna, network softwarization and desegregation, 
expanded the opportunity pipeline. TCS contributed in the 
area of interoperability of ORAN sub-systems. It contributed 
to the Chromite Core community in processor design 
and verification areas.
 
The Company’s Pace Ports™ are spaces that connect 
customers to all of TCS’ organizational capabilities 
in innovation, technology, and industry expertise. 
The company inaugurated two Pace Ports this year: 
TCS Pace Port™ Pittsburgh, on the Carnegie Mellon 
University campus; and TCS Pace Port™ Toronto. TCS and 
Boots launched an innovation hub, INNOVATE Powered 
by TCS Pace™, at the Boots Nottingham headquarters. 
TCS forged a major applied engineering and research 
partnership with The National Robotarium, UK’s largest 
and most advanced AI and robotics research centre. 
TCS launched a Quantum Computing Lab on AWS.
 
TCS COINTM expanded its global footprint. It now has over 
2,700 start-ups in the network and 80+ active academic 
partnerships. COIN Business Accelerator, a high-touch 
program with emerging tech companies, has kicked off 
its 3rd cohort. The Accelerator is playing an instrumental 
part in TCS’ ecosystem strategy, increasing its innovation 
footprint, and winning deals.
 
In keeping with the Company’s commitment to social 
responsibility and sustainability, TCS Research continued 
its focus on energy, circularity, and development related 
projects. These have won appreciation from analysts. 
TCS’ Clever Energy was launched on Google Cloud. 
TCS’ futuristic accessibility research was also lauded. 
Barclays leveraged TCS’ VHAB, a gamified assistive tech 
offering, to help children with special needs. The Digital 
farming Initiative enabled carbon sequestration in 
agriculture. TCS’ energy research teams worked on smart 
grids, the EV ecosystem, the energy internet, and carbon 
market.
 
TCS conducted several sustainathons to create pools 
of ideas to address social issues. TCS Sustainathon South 
Africa 2022 focused on nutrition and food security 
for underprivileged South African children. Another 
sustainathon was launched in UK and Ireland with 
University of Glasgow to Develop Sustainable Technology 
Solutions that support businesses.
 
The Digital Impact Square, that encourages innovation 
using digital technologies to address social challenges, 
onboarded many new projects selected from 900+ 
applications. DiSQ expanded its ecosystem with more 
network partners. Several companies within the purview 
of DiSQ have won awards. The TCS Research Scholarship 
Program, that completed 10 years, has been extended.
 
In keeping with the Company’s belief of building greater 
futures through innovation and collective knowledge, 
Research and Innovation initiatives to foster a culture 
of creativity continued this year. An organization-wide 
incubation bootcamp to encourage and support 
entrepreneurial ideas in areas of Space Tech, Future of 
Software, Sustainability, Financial Crime and Compliance 
was held. To further scale out the concept of Rapid Labs, 
“Build your own Rapid” initiative was held, mentoring 
teams to create labs that can deliver quick MVPs for 
customer requests. The TCS Innovista 2022 contest drew 

Directors’ Report
 | 79
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
10,000+ innovative entries. TCS won four awards in the Tata 
Innovista 2022 finals.
 
TCS CodeVita completed a decade of engaging students 
with programming as a sport. Season 10 saw participation 
of 100,000+ students from 87 countries and was one of the 
most competitive finales in the contest’s history.
 
TCS OmniStoreTM and TCS OptumeraTM won Stevies 
at the International Business Awards 2022 in the AI/ML 
solution category. TCS won gold in the category ‘Smart 
Technology - Electricity Transmission’ at Indian Smart 
Grid Forum (ISGF) Innovation Awards 2023. VidyutVanika 
created in collaboration with IIIT Hyderabad won at the 
international smart grid competition PowerTAC 2022. 
TCS’ Digital Farming Initiatives won the NASSCOM 
Enterprise Cloud Awards ’22. ignio™ AIOps was awarded 
significant industry accolades.
 
TCS continues to contribute to standards in areas such as 
environmental engineering, cyber security, cyber resilience, 
Internet of Things, smart cities, software architecture, 
quantum computing & communication, accessibility of ICT 
for the differently abled, AI and FinTech-RegTech.
 
The company’s intellectual property grew with 260+ 
publications and presentations in top-tier journals and 
conferences. As of March 31, 2023, 7305 patents have 
been filed (cumulatively) by the company and 2878 have 
been granted. TCS won many awards relating to IP, 
including the Asia IP Elite Award 2022 for being an exemplar 
of IP value creation.
 
Future course of action:
 
TCS will continue to scale the Patents, Products and 
Platforms strategy across the organization, harnessing 
the collective knowledge and creativity of internal teams 
and of partners to deliver innovative solutions 
for customers.
 
Expenditure on R&D:
 
TCS research and innovation centres are located in India 
and other parts of the world. The research centres in 
India, as certified by Department of Scientific & Industrial 
Research (DSIR), function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, 
Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
 
Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation 
centers of TCS during FY 2023 and FY 2022 are given below:
 (` crore)
Expenditure on R&D and innovation
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
Capital


Recurring

Total R&D expenditure (a+b)

Innovation center expenditure
2,048
1,841
2,119 
1,901
Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d)
2,424
2,178
2,500
2,242
R&D and innovation expenditure as a 
percentage of total turnover
1.3%
1.4%
1.1%
1.2%
 
*Represents value less than ₹0.50 crore
 
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
 
Export revenue constituted 94.3 percent of the total 
standalone revenue in FY 2023 (94.0 percent in FY 2022).
(` crore)
Foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo
FY 2023
FY 2022
Foreign exchange 
earnings
1,83,412
1,55,240
CIF Value of imports

Expenditure in 
foreign currency
75,786
63,689
27. Acknowledgements
 
The Directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, 
vendors, investors and academic partners for their 
continuous support. The Directors also thank 
the Government of India, Governments of various states 
in India, Governments of various countries and concerned 
Government departments and agencies for their 
co-operation.
 
The Directors appreciate and value the contribution made 
by every member of the TCS family.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
N Chandrasekaran 
Chairman 
DIN 00121863
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Directors’ Report
 | 80
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
 
TCS’ CSR vision is to empower people and communities, 
building self-reliance through purpose and technology 
while ensuring the values of fairness, equity, and respect 
for human rights. The Company remains steadfast in its 
mission to connect people to opportunities in the digital 
economy while building equitable, inclusive pathways for all 
– especially women, youth, and marginalized groups.
 
TCS invests in addressing the most pressing needs of 
the community through various CSR initiatives and 
programs across globe aligned with the U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goals, against the primary focus areas of 
education, skilling, employment, and entrepreneurship. 
With a focus on bridging the access to opportunity gap, the 
Company also invests in social innovation and community 
projects targeted at marginalized sections of society. 
The Company invests in basic health and wellness, water 
sanitation and hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief 
efforts to support the basic needs of communities across 
the globe.
 
By applying its resources towards communities that need it 
the most, TCS ensures equitable access. The Company’s CSR 
Annexure I
Annual Report on CSR Activities
strategy incorporates an inclusive approach into the design 
of every program. In India this is also aligned to its support 
of the Government of India’s Affirmative Action Policy 
and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action Program.
 
With a view to grow the capacity of grassroot organizations 
and the knowledge base of community issues, TCS also 
invests in strategic partnerships, research, and insights and 
in providing pro-bono technology consulting.
 
To achieve transformational impact, TCS leverages the best 
of the Company’s capabilities – its intellectual, technology, 
human and financial capital. TCS aims to create innovative 
solutions to societal challenges applying its contextual 
knowledge while harnessing the expertise of a diverse network 
of leaders; execute and scale programs using its technology 
capabilities; engage its large employee base to volunteer their 
time, skills and expertise as last-mile connectors and make 
impact investments in large scale, sustainable, multi-year 
programs that empower communities.
 
The projects undertaken are within the broad framework 
of Schedule VII to the Act. 
Composition of the CSR committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended during 
the year

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman, Non-independent 
Non-Executive Director

O P Bhatt
Member, Independent, 
Non-Executive Director

N G Subramaniam
Member, Non-Independent, 
Executive Director

Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR 
committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the Company
 
Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is 
available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.
 
CSR policy - https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
 
CSR projects - https://www.tcs.com/corporate-socialresponsibility
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) 
of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable
 
TCS has been conducting internal impact assessments to 
monitor and evaluate its strategic CSR programs. 
The Company takes cognizance of Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 8 
of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 and has initiated impact assessment of BridgeIT 
- Development Focus project through an independent 
agency. The report is available on the Company’s website 
at https://on.tcs.com/BridgeIT-2023

Directors’ Report
 | 81
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(a) Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: ₹38,662 crore
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ₹773 crore
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL
 
(d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : NIL
 
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [5(b)+5(c)-5(d)]: ₹773 crore
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ₹775 crore
 
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ₹8 crore 
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL
 
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [6(a)+6(b)+6(c)]: ₹783 crore
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
(` crore)
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year
Amount Unspent 
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
Section 135(6) of the Act
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 135(5) of the Act
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer

NIL
NIL
 
(f) 
Excess amount for set off, if any:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particular
Amount
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5)

(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year

(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, 
if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]

Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
(₹ crore)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under 
Section 135 
(6)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 135 
(6)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year
Amount transferred to a Fund as 
specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso Section 135(5), 
if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
Date of transfer
NIL
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
 
 Yes 

Directors’ Report
 | 82
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired : Not Applicable 
 
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
Sr. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of the 
property]
Pincode of the 
property or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent
Details of entity/Authority/Beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
NIL
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5) - Not 
Applicable
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Chandrasekaran
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
DIN 06365813
DIN 00121863

Directors’ Report
 | 83
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Secretarial Audit Report
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] 
To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances 
and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company, to the extent the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, 
the explanations and clarifications given to us and the 
representations made by the Management and considering 
the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India warranted due 
to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we hereby report 
that in our opinion, the Company has during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2023, generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records made available to us 
and maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2023 according to the applicable provisions of:
(i) 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’):
Annexure II
Form No. MR-3
 
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
 
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
 (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 and amendments from time to time;
 
 (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period)
 
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit 
period)
 
(f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
audit period)
 
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to 
the Company during the audit period) and
 
(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely:-
 
Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made 
thereunder;
 
Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules made 
thereunder;
 
Software Technology Parks of India rules and 
regulations
 
The Indian Copyright Act, 1957
 
The Patents Act, 1970
 
The Trade Marks Act, 1999
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i) 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India with respect to board and general 
meetings.
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited 

Directors’ Report
 | 84
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held 
at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings were taken 
unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines etc.
We further report that during the audit period no events 
occurred which had bearing on the Company’s affairs in 
pursuance of the above referred Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards etc.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
 
 
UDIN: F000327E000066844
 
 
PR No.: 1129/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: 12.04.2023 
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report.

Directors’ Report
 | 85
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of 
the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on 
our audit.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were 
appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. 
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe 
that the process and practices, we followed provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management 
Representation about the Compliance of Laws, 
Rules and Regulations and happening of events etc.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited 
to the verification of procedure on test basis.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
 
 
UDIN: F000327E000066844
 
 
PR No.: 1129/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: 12.04.2023

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 86
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis
Overview of the Industry
Global GDP in FY 2023 was affected by the Russia-Ukraine war 
and resultant dislocations in supply chains, leading to surging 
food and energy inflation. Central banks raised interest rates 
sharply in response. As a result, the global GDP is estimated to 
have grown at a more subdued 3.4% in 2022, versus 5.9% in the 
prior year1. 
Global technology spending on Enterprise software and IT 
services crossed the $2 trillion2 mark in 2022, growing 5.5% YoY. 
IT services grew 3.5% YoY, to $1,250 billion. This growth was led 
by accelerated cloud adoption, preference for external expertise 
due to severe talent scarcity, and expanding scope of digital 
transformation to cover more back-office operational areas.
The global IT services industry continues to be a highly 
fragmented one, with even the largest provider having a midsingle digit market share. TCS is among the largest IT services 
providers globally, with a market share of 2.2%, and has 
outperformed the market, growing significantly higher than 
market growth over the last decade. 
Global Spend on IT Services ($ Bn)
TCS Revenue $ Bn
FY 2013
FY 2023
2.4x
1.4x
USD Billion

11.6

1,250
27.9
The outperformance may be attributed to market share gains 
resulting from TCS’ longer-term, purpose-driven partnerships 
with its customers, its agile organization structure, and a very 
stable management team; its investments in organic talent 
development, research and innovation, intellectual property and 
in building newer capabilities that have helped expand wallet 
share with clients; and better execution resulting in greater 
customer satisfaction.
TCS’ Business
An Overview
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions 
organization partnering many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformational journeys for the last 55 years. It has 
a global presence, deep domain expertise in multiple industry 
verticals and a complete portfolio of offerings – grouped under 
consulting and service integration, application services, digital 
transformation services, cloud services, engineering services, 
cognitive business operations, and products and platforms – 
targeting every C-suite stakeholder.
The company leverages all these capabilities and its deep 
contextual knowledge of its customers’ businesses to craft 
unique, high quality, high impact solutions designed to deliver 
differentiated business outcomes. These solutions are delivered 
using its Secure Borderless Workspaces™ (SBWS™) operating 
model which enables a highly distributed, Location Independent 
Agile™ delivery.
TCS geographic footprint covers North America, Latin America, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, India and 
Middle-East Africa.
TCS considers industry verticals as its primary go-to-market 
business segments. The key vertical clusters are: Banking, 
Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Communication, Media 
and Technology (CMT), Retail and Consumer Business, Life 
Sciences and Healthcare, Manufacturing and Others.
Strategy for Sustainable Growth3
Customer-centricity is at the heart of TCS’ strategy, 
organization structure and investment decisions. TCS’ 
customer-centric worldview helps spot trends early, embrace 
business opportunities by making the right investments and 
mitigating risks while discharging its social and environmental 
responsibilities.
1 World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2023
2 Gartner
3GRI 2-22

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 87
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
TCS has been broadening and deepening customer relationships 
by continually looking for new opportunities and newer areas in 
their businesses to add value, proactively investing in building 
newer capabilities, reskilling its workforce and launching newer 
services, solutions, products and platforms to address those 
opportunities.
In the last few years, the company has been using its 
investments in research and innovation, its intellectual property 
and deep contextual knowledge of the customer’s business 
and technology landscape to proactively pitch ideas and 
solutions designed to improve the client’s topline and help drive 
competitive differentiation.
These growth and transformation (G&T) engagements are 
higher value engagements catering to the needs of a broader 
set of stakeholders in the client organization, enjoying greater 
visibility within the CXO suite and more closely aligned with 
their business strategy. An expanding share of this business is 
helping drive a steady increase in the scope and scale of services 
consumed year after year, and an expansion of TCS’ share of 
wallet, as evidenced by the client metrics.
Over time, this strategy has resulted in deep and enduring 
customer relationships, a vibrant and engaged workforce, 
industry-leading profitability, a steady expansion of the 
addressable market, and a proven track record in delivering 
longer term stakeholder value.
Enabling Investments
TCS pioneered4 the use of the word ‘digital’ to describe the 
new family of technologies that emerged in the last decade. 
Quick to recognize the potential of cloud, the company made 
investments ahead of time in launching new platform-based 
business models as far back as in 20095, reskilling the workforce, 
research and innovation, building collaborative workspaces 
and innovation centers, intellectual property, and alliances and 
partnerships. Those early investments have given TCS a head 
start in participating in its customers’ G&T journeys.
The company continues to invest in co-innovation hubs, 
launching TCS Pace Ports™ in major markets. TCS teams use 
these physical spaces to work with academic and start-up 
partners, ideate jointly with client teams and rapidly build 
prototypes. The Pace Ports at Pittsburgh in the US, in the 
Carnegie Mellon University campus, and the other in Toronto, 
Canada, were formally inaugurated this year. Including the ones 
in Tokyo, New York and Amsterdam, the company has five Pace 
Ports in all.
The company launched joint innovation hubs as well, using 
the TCS Pace™ framework. TCS and Boots launched an agile 
incubator called INNOVATE Powered by TCS Pace™, at Boots’ 
Nottingham headquarters in the UK. TCS forged a major applied 
engineering and research partnership with The National 
Robotarium, UK’s largest and most advanced AI and robotics 
research centre, located at Heriot-Watt University’s Edinburgh 
campus.
TCS continued to expand and deepen its industry-leading 
portfolio of products and platforms, launching new variants 
within the ignio™ suite and building newer functionality and 
features in the TCS BaNCS™ suite, HOBS, TwinX, Mastercraft 
and Jile. TCS Omnistore™ now offers three more modules 
as part of its AI powered enterprise personalization - Unified 
and composable commerce, Enterprise personalization, and 
Marketing hub.
 TCS’ dedicated practice units around AWS, Microsoft Azure 
and Google Cloud Platform have been steadily investing in 
training, certifications, credentials and in building solutions and 
intellectual property on their respective hyperscaler stacks. 
In FY 2023, the company crossed the milestone of 100,000 
hyperscaler-certified employees. By virtue of being one of their 
largest system integrator partners with deep domain expertise 
across multiple areas, TCS was the launch partner for many new 
solutions introduced by hyperscaler platforms during the year.
The company has leveraged its deep domain knowledge across 
multiple industries to create an extensive catalog of over 100 
industry cloud offerings addressing the needs of clients across 
20 industries. The portfolio of TCS solutions available on public 
hyperscaler cloud platforms continued to expand. In FY 2023, 
TCS Dexam™, TCS DigiGov™, TCS Cognitive Plant Operations, TCS 
Mobility Cloud Suite and TCS ESG Integrator were added to the 
list of existing solutions like TCS Omnistore™, TCS MasterCraft™, 
5G Edge Suite, TwinX, TCS Clever Energy™, TCS IP2™ and TCS 
Envirozone™.
Strategic Responses to Opportunities and Threats
Opportunity / Threat
TCS Approach
Outcomes
Macroeconomic 
uncertainty impacting 
decision making 
and prompting cost 
reduction initiatives
Proven track record in helping enterprises reduce their cost 
of operations.
Proactive pitching of IT and business operating model 
transformations that not only deliver greater efficiency, but 
also enhance enterprise agility, resilience and throughput.
Leveraging full services capability and deep client 
relationships to propose product-aligned operating models.
Use of TCS Cognix™ to accelerate operations 
transformation, using over 600 pre-built automation 
components that infuse AI/ML and other technologies into 
IT and business processes to reduce human intervention, 
increase velocity and throughput.
Strong deal flow resulting in a 
robust order book that gives better 
visibility of medium-term growth.
Market share gains in vendor 
consolidations.
Efficiency gains helping fund 
client’s transformation programs in 
some instances. 
TCS Cognix recognized as a means 
of driving quicker realization of RoI 
and used by nearly 300 clients.
4 Ref AR FY 2012, MD&A, Pages 25, 29
5 Ref AR FY 2010, Letter from CEO, Page 7

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 88
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Opportunity / Threat
TCS Approach
Outcomes
Greater interest in using 
technology to drive 
business growth and 
differentiation
Focused on developing contextual knowledge and applying 
that for inside-out transformations.
Continued investments in research and innovation, TCS 
Pace Ports, and intellectual property (IP).
Dedicated practice with domain experts to bring together 
TCS’ differentiated capabilities from across the organization 
to stitch together comprehensive solutions.
Proactive pitching of solutions to customers’ most pressing 
business problems.
New brand tagline ‘Building on Belief’ to strengthen 
positioning as a growth and transformation partner.
Expansion of addressable market.
Growing share of G&T business 
adding to growth.
Higher quality revenue, lending 
margin resilience.
More deeply embedded in the 
client’s business.
Engaging with a broader set of 
buyers in the client organization.
Higher visibility within C-Suites.
Accelerated adoption of 
public cloud
Dedicated business units with end to end capabilities on 
each of the hyperscaler platforms.
Continued investment by each of these units in skills, 
certifications, credentials, IP and accelerators.
Articulated the multi-horizon cloud transformation 
framework.
Made available TCS products and solutions on public 
clouds.
Strong growth in cloud 
transformation revenues.
Top tier partner to each of the 
hyperscalers.
Preferred partner to clients seeking 
to use cloud native capabilities 
to power their growth and 
transformation.
Over 110,000 hyperscaler-certified 
employees.
Greater acceptance of 
as-a-Service platforms
Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings around 
the popular and new SaaS products.
Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch new 
SaaS versions.
Partnering with product manufacturers to help launch 
innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS Bringing Life to 
Things IoT framework. 
TCS IP:
Promoted SaaS versions of in-house product portfolio, now 
available on hyperscaler platforms.
Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that bundle IP 
and shared services on the cloud.
Stronger win-win partnerships.
Expansion of addressable market.
Strong growth in SaaS sales.
Platforms drive stickier 
relationships, with long term 
revenue visibility.
* Independent Software Vendor
Talent Management
TCS aims to attract, develop, motivate and retain diverse talent, 
that is critical for its competitive differentiation and continued 
success. The company’s talent management strategy seeks 
to maximize the potential of every employee by creating a 
purpose-driven, inclusive, stimulating, and rewarding work 
environment, delivering outstanding employee experience, 
while fueling business growth. TCS strives to create a vibrant 
workplace and an engaged workforce by encouraging four 
behaviors: follow your passion, stay hungry, commit to lifelong 
learning and thrive together.
In FY 2023, TCS made a net addition of 22,600 employees 
globally, taking the total employee base to 614,795, representing 
150 nationalities.
After two years of remote working, TCS initiated a Return 
to Office initiative to better integrate and acculturate new 
recruits, deepen employee engagement levels, drive purposeful 
engagement and extend the spirit of #OneTCS. As an outcome, 
50% of employees started working from office for two or more 
days in a week.
Industry-First Initiatives
Intensified focus on equipping the company’s mid-level 
managers with market relevant skills by providing the 
right learning and certification opportunities to help them 
succeed in a world of new technologies. More than 90% of 
the target employee pool is participating in this strategic 
program and close to 60% is certified in various market 
relevant skills.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 89
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Xcelerate - The industry recognized Talent Transformation 
platform for employees, to capture employees’ aspirations 
and mapping them to future opportunities. Aspirations 
of nearly 2/3rd of TCSers were captured, with ~100K 
progressing towards their aspired roles.
Engagement with Purpose – A platform for employees 
to live TCS’ values through collective community service, 
enhance organizational belonging and self-actualization. 
More than 400,000 employees were engaged as part of the 
initiative.
Talent Acquisition
In FY 2023, TCS responded with agility to the changing supply 
side dynamics which saw the unprecedented industry-wide 
employee churn peaking mid-year, then falling sharply in 
the latter half. This entailed recalibrating talent acquisition 
dynamically to fully utilize the additional capacity built up in the 
prior year.
The company remains the preferred employer and one of the 
largest job creators in IT services in several major markets, for 
both freshers and lateral hires. In addition to about 44,000 fresh 
engineers, TCS onboarded its highest ever number of lateral 
recruits during the year. It also pivoted from a virtual-only 
mode to a hybrid model of virtual and in-person recruitment 
focused on attracting the right talent, creating better employee 
experiences, and building the TCS brand.
Key Achievements:
TCS National Qualifier Test: Over 618,000 students from 
more than 4,200 institutes in India competed for the 
opportunity to work for TCS.
Hiring from India’s top B-schools, including the top 3 IIMs, 
continues with internship and placement offers as part of 
the strategic leadership program.
TCS CareersNext: TCS’ virtual career fair platform was 
leveraged for conducting 3 virtual hiring drives in this 
year, yielding over 32,000 registrations and 8,000 job 
applications.
TCS HackQuest, the company’s flagship ethical hacking 
competition now in its 7th season saw over 58,000 
registrations from more than 3,000 institutes across India.
Programs to improve diversity in hiring produced 
encouraging outcomes. Rebegin, an initiative for 
experienced women professionals re-entering the 
workforce after a break saw nearly 14,000 job applications. 
Over 200 job applications were received from people with 
disabilities.
TCS Sigma launched in FY 2023 to provide career 
opportunities for graduates and postgraduates in pharmacy 
in the company’s life sciences business.
TCS Academic Interface Program continued to engage 
with faculty and students through focus group connects, 
workshops, faculty development programs and other 
campus outreach activities. In FY 2023, TCS engaged with 
over 216,000 students and about 17,000 faculty members 
in nearly 1,500 partner academic institutes across the 
world. More than 2,000 interns were engaged during the 
year.
Culture and Diversity
TCS is an equal opportunity employer and has a well-defined and 
progressive Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) policy embracing 
all diversity parameters which includes gender, marital status, 
religion, race/caste, colour, age, ancestry, nationality, language, 
ethnic origin, socio-economic status, physical appearance, 
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression 
and any other category protected by applicable law.

necessary to drive innovation, foster creativity, and guide 
business strategies. Its disclosures around DEI earned it a place 
in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) once again. Other 
highlights include:
iExcel: TCS’ flagship executive leadership development 
program for women completed 22 editions, benefiting 
1,450 women leaders.
The Diversity Maturity Matrix: An in-house diversity 
measurement tool that aims at identifying gaps and 
assessing an organization’s maturity in DEI.
Client engagement: Allies of Diversity is a program where 
senior leadership from client organizations are invited to 
share diversity best practices. Engagement with 75 C-Suite 
leaders with 63 different client organizations has been 
completed till date. An Allies of Diversity conclave was 
organized in London to provide a forum for DEI leaders 
to share organizational learnings. DEI focused learning 
programs were conducted for 4 client organizations.
The Workplace Coach: A 75-hour internal coach 
certification program enabling individuals to become 
coaches. This supports individuals within the organization 
towards ACC certification. So far, 3 cohorts have completed 
this program bringing together over 450 internal coaches.
Education and Sensitization: TCS has mandatory online 
training designed to sensitize employees on key concepts of 
DEI. 504,255 employees completed this in FY 2023.
Employee Resource Groups: These serve as platforms for 
under-represented communities and their allies to share 
concerns, experiences, stories and strategic solutions. TCS 
has 13 voluntary, employee-led groups that have come 
together based on shared diversity identity characteristics 
or interest.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 90
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Champions of Equity: This campaign was created to 
ensure a fair and inclusive culture at the workplace. Under 
this program, 105,000 employees have taken a pledge till 
date, to be a Champion of Equity – someone who treats 
everyone with fairness and transparency, and takes an 
inclusive approach towards every individual, culture and 
system.
TCS Culture Survey: As part of the Belongingness 
campaign, TCS Culture Survey was rolled out and 
responded to by over 7,000 employees across 7 
geographies.
Employee Engagement: Over 84,000 employees 
participated in DEI learning programs and diversity 
celebration month.
Supplier Diversity: TCS has a Supplier Diversity Program 
that identifies certified diverse suppliers that can provide 
competitive, high-quality goods and services, whose 
business model is aligned with the company’s business 
strategy.
Talent Development
TCS strongly believes that every employee should have access 
to market relevant learning opportunities for career growth and 
no TCSer should be left behind. The company has adopted a 
segmented approach to learning to ensure this.
TCS Elevate: TCS’ pioneering program linking learning to career 
growth and reward covered over 407,000 employees. Over 
22,000 employees were identified as high talent and received 
increased compensation.
Contextual Masters: TCS’ program to identify tenured 
employees with contextual knowledge of the customer’s 
business and technology landscape, continues to expand. The 
company has over 64,000 Contextual Masters who are being 
groomed to be next generation transformation leaders with 
specially curated leadership development programs designed in 
collaboration with Ivy league institutions.
Key Metrics:
60,000 open positions fulfilled using up-skilled / crossskilled employees.
TCSers invested in 82.4 hours of learning on average during 
the year.
Average Learning Hours 
per employee 82.4 hrs 
Learning Hours by cohorts 
Mid-level focus showing results
Male
Female
Total learning
Hours clocked
Middle
Junior
Senior

TCSers acquired 53,000 certifications on various 
hyperscaler cloud technologies during the year. With over 
110,000 cloud certified employees in total, TCS is the #1 
partner for Google and #2 partner for Microsoft Azure.
500,000 employees trained in digital technologies, with an 
average of ~7.5 competencies per employee.
568,000 employees have acquired Agile competency, with 
495,000 of them groomed as Agile practitioners, over 
35,000 as Agile certified and about 3,000 as mentors and 
coaches.
Taking advantage of the large numbers of employees who 
started returning to office after two years of entirely virtual 
working, the company adopted an increasingly phygital 
(physical + digital) approach to learning and development. 
Over 80,000 TCSers benefited from in-person training 
during the year.
Building on Belief through Purposeful People Policies
Based on feedback received from employees, evolving needs of 
the workforce and best practices in the field of human capital 
management, the company makes refinements to existing 
policies and introduces new policy. In FY 2023, TCS:
Introduced a new policy on workforce fluidity, in keeping 
with its talent cloud strategy, that encourages employees 
to take ownership of their careers by seeking new and 
challenging opportunities at defined periodicity.
Introduced a policy on flexible work arrangements, which 
provides necessary support and flexibility for caregivers of 
young children, expectant women employees, and persons 
with disability.
Extended its policy on DEI to include gender identity, 
individuals with mental variations and HIV/Aids affected 
persons at the workplace, and to comply with relevant 
inclusivity laws.
Talent Transformation
TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees grow in their 
careers:
Mentoring: TCS has been building a culture of mentoring 
and coaching in the organization through systemic 
intervention programs as part of its Mentor Capability 
Building Framework. This was further strengthened during 
the year with the introduction of two new certifications 
– Platinum and NexGen certification in mentoring. TCS 
currently has about 36,000 mentors in the organization of 
whom more than 3,500 Gold and Silver certified.
iConnect is a highly collaborative tool designed to help 
employees reach out to senior mentors for guidance on 
career paths, and have face to face dialogues about their 
role and career. In FY 2023, over 29,000 iConnect sessions 
were initiated.
Talent Review is TCS’ process to assess and review the 
leadership pool in the organization. It enables leaders to 
share their career aspirations and preferences of mobility, 
followed by an assessment of their leadership attributes. 
The objective of the program is to create and sustain a 
healthy leadership pipeline.
Exciting Opportunities is the internal platform to publish 
niche and critical open positions to the leadership and 

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 91
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
high potential communities, thereby facilitating talent 
mobility. This embodies the company’s philosophy of 
giving the first right of refusal for all leadership positions 
to internal candidates, thereby enabling better leadership 
development and building strong organizational loyalty.
Competitive Compensation
TCS’ business model depends on its ability to attract and 
retain talent in the highly competitive, global market for 
software engineers with graduate or post-graduate degrees in 
engineering and with relevant technical skills.
Compensation levels are merit based, determined by 
qualification, experience levels, special skills if any, and 
individual performance. Compensation structures are driven 
by prevailing practices in each country that TCS operates in. 
The merit based, democratized, transparent talent framework 
– Elevate, is designed to establish a tighter linkage between 
learning, skill development, career and reward. The company 
regularly benchmarks its compensation plans and benefits with 
the market to ensure competitiveness.
At TCS, three months’ notice is required from either side for 
termination6. Although most of the organization’s activities 
are performed by full-time employees, TCS uses contractors, 
especially for short-term assignments or those requiring skills 
not internally available.
Engagement with Purpose
With more employees returning to work, various programs 
were run to enable higher levels of engagement. More than 
320,000 employees were engaged through townhalls and 
project confluences with an emphasis on Living my Values, 
Build my Career and Lifelong Learning. The company enabled 
more than 22,000 mentoring sessions and over 15,000 career 
conversations.
Highlights of the company’s key engagement forums:
New Joinee Integration: Various structured programs 
such as meet and greet sessions, workplace visits and 
leader connects were organized to improve the integration 
experience of new joiners at various milestones of their 
induction in the initial one year. The effectiveness of these 
programs was demonstrated by the high 83% iBelong 
satisfaction index.
TCS Cares: Aims to build an emotionally strong and 
mentally resilient workforce. A special edition targeting 
leaders saw participation by over 1,100 leaders. 87% 
of participants agreed that it helped in their wellbeing 
and 80% agreed that their productivity increased after 
attending this program.
Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness conscious 
employees and creates a culture of fitness. 54,000 active 
participants logged physical activity equivalent to running 
24 million kms.
Purpose4Life: Forum for volunteering for community 
projects in the areas of education, health and environment. 
More than 40,000 volunteers participated in various social 
outreach initiatives, contributing 898,000 volunteering 
hours that benefited 394,000 individuals in the community.
PULSE: Pulse 2022 recorded an enthusiastic participation 
with more than 400k employees taking in the survey. TCS 
has achieved Satisfaction Index of 79.5 and Engagement 
Index of 81.0.
Other engagement and collaboration platforms in TCS include:
Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social 
collaboration within the organization, learning, sharing and 
for rewards and recognition.
Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety and 
security.
Maitree: Community of TCSers and their families who plan 
activities that help create a bond among employees and 
promote work-life balance.
Employee Retention
TCS’ values-driven culture, progressive HR policies, and 
philosophy of investing in people and empowering them have 
been integral to creating a culture of belonging and One TCS and 
also made it an industry benchmark in talent retention.
The company’s philosophy of grooming leadership from within, 
and giving first right of refusal to internal talent for new open 
positions, inspires higher levels of loyalty to the organization. 
This has resulted in a very strong, deeply acculturated mid-layer 
with long tenures in the company. This cohort played a pivotal 
role in seamlessly integrating new talent in FY 2023 and added 
significant value through their contributions and contextual 
knowledge.
Unprecedented levels of employee churn across the industry 
drove TCS’ attrition to an all-time high in the first half of FY 2023. 
It trended down in the second half. IT services attrition was 
20.1% on an LTM basis.
Occupational Health and Safety
TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
policy and supporting processes to ensure the safety and 
well-being of its employees. Safety lead and lag indicators 
are measured across the organization and reported. The 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in the Board reviews the 
company’s health and safety performance on a half-yearly basis. 
Over 94% of the workforce is represented in joint managementemployee health and safety committees that monitor, advise, 
and drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.
TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System standard across 127 of its facilities 
worldwide covering approximately 94% of its total footprint. 
The company continued to focus on creating ergonomic 
awareness including correct postures and workstation stretches 
for an office-based work environment and remote working 
environment, as employees worked in hybrid mode during the 
year. General safety awareness (fire safety, office safety, road 
safety etc.,) and safety incident reporting awareness was also 
provided to employees through monthly themes and campaign 
initiatives. There were also several fitness programs, including 
yoga and meditation practices, mental health and wellbeing 
which drew employee participation.
6 GRI 402-1

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 92
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the year that ended 
March 31, 2023. The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or 
‘the Company’) are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as ‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to time. 
Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the company:
(` crore)
FY 2023
FY 2022 
Amount
% of Revenue
% Growth
Amount
% of Revenue
Revenue from operations
225,458
100.0
17.6
191,754
100.0
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortization (EBITDA) (before other income)
59,259
26.3
11.7
53,057
27.7
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
56,907
25.2
10.1
51,687
27.0
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the 
company
42,147
18.7
10.0
38,327
20.0
Earnings per share (in `)
115.19
11.2
103.62
Analysis of revenue growth
On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 17.6% in FY 2023, compared to 16.8% in the prior year. The growth was driven by accelerated 
spending on digital transformation initiatives, cloud adoption and increased outsourcing, aided by currency benefit. 
Average currency exchange rates during FY 2023 for the three major currencies are given below:
Currency
Weightage (%)
FY 2023 
FY 2022 
% Change YoY
USD
56.0
80.74
74.61
8.2
GBP
12.8
96.98
101.50
(4.5)
EUR
10.8
84.01
86.36
(2.7)
Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a positive impact of 3.9% on the reported revenue. The constant 
currency revenue growth for the year, which is the reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 13.7%.
Growth attributable to
FY 2023 (%)
FY 2022 (%)
Business growth
13.7
15.4
Impact of exchange rate
3.9
1.4
Total Growth
17.6
16.8
Segmental Performance 
The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:
Banking, Financial Services 
and Insurance 38.2% 
Others 8.2%
Life Sciences and 
Healthcare 10.9%
Manufacturing 9.4%
Communication, Media 
and Technology 16.7%
Retail and Consumer 
Business 16.6%
ConƟnental 
Europe 14.9%
Asia Paciﬁc 8.0%
North America 53.4%
India 5.0%
Middle East 
and Africa 1.9%
LaƟn America 1.8%
United Kingdom 15.0%
Revenue by Industry Vertical
Revenue by Geography

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 93
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2023 
(FY 2022) 
₹ crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2023 
(FY 2022) 
Banking, Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
86,127
(75,126)
14.6
AI for risk monitoring and management, fraud detection and 
trading strategies.
Customer journey transformation, ecosystem strategies for new 
products and services, connected insurance, fintech adoption.
Decentralized finance, embedded finance, Banking as a Service, 
document custody transformation.
Sustainability and climate change initiatives, green lending.
25.9
(26.9)
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
37,653
(31,874)
18.1
5G and fiber rollout, network virtualization, cloud enablement, 
product, and platform engineering.
AI-monitored networks, generative ai for automated content 
creation.
Hyper-personalization, immersive experiences in gaming, 
recommendation engines.
28.3
(29.9)
Retail and 
Consumer Business
37,506
(30,715)
22.1
Retail and Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG):
Marketplace, social commerce, future stores, digital advertising 
platform, payments.
Smart shelves, smart manufacturing, automated micro-fulfilment 
centers.
Resilient and intelligent supply chain, partner integration, track 
and trace, last-mile delivery, ai enabled inventory management.
Seamless and unified customer experience across channels 
(omni-channel), hyper personalization, CX and recommendations, 
AI for apparel design and personalized fashion recommendations.
Green labeling.
Travel, Transportation and Hospitality (TTH):
Retailing in airlines, new distribution capability, experiential 
selling and non-booking revenues in hospitality, decision 
intelligence.
Automation and self-service, touchless experience, digital 
identity solutions, maintenance drones in airlines, autonomous 
vehicles, and robots in airports.
Warehouse robotics, intelligent shipment planning, last mile 
delivery, real-time operations visibility, AI-enabled pricing, endto-end shipment visibility in logistics. 
Safe and sustainable travel. 
25.7
(27.8)
7 Only industry specific drivers are listed. In addition, every industry vertical saw demand for TCS’ services around IT estate rationalization, core 
platform simplification, application and data modernization, ERP modernization, cloud enablement, cloud migration, data democratization, data 
compliance and protection, IT infrastructure modernization, employee experience redesign, digital workplace transformation, cyber security, 
intelligent automation, business and IT operating model transformation, agile and DevOps adoption, digital marketing and analytics, mergers, 
acquisitions and divestitures, supply chain transformation, vendor consolidation and cost optimization.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 94
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2023 
(FY 2022) 
₹ crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2023 
(FY 2022) 
Life Sciences and 
Healthcare
24,605
(20,462)
20.2
Life Sciences:
Drug discovery, virtual clinical trials, connected labs, and 
instruments.
Digital twin for manufacturing and factory of the future.
AI-led pharmacovigilance and product surveillance.
Healthcare:
Patient experience, health data platforms.
Wearable devices, mobile health.
AI powered diagnosis, treatment planning, digital surgery, 
personalized medicine.
28.0
(30.0)
Manufacturing
21,236
(18,610)
14.1
Integration across silos and digital twins for product innovation.
Connected assets and plants, remote asset management.
Resilient supply chain, parts track and trace.
Front-end digital investments to enhance customer experience.
Plant safety, energy efficiency and decarbonization, emission 
tracking and monitoring, sustainability focus on facilities waste 
management and energy, EVs.
27.5
(30.1)
Others
18,331
(14,967)
22.5
Connected ecosystems for utilities, connected home, smart 
metering and alerts, virtual power plants, remote monitoring 
and infra inspection.
AI-enabled smart grids, patterns, and predictions.
Energy transition, emission detection and monitoring in critical 
infrastructure.
21.1
(20.6)
Business Outlook
Global growth is projected to moderate from 3.4 percent in 
2022 to 2.8 percent in 20238 , weighed down by central banks 
raising interest rates to fight inflation, and Russia’s war in 
Ukraine. In major economies, the heightened risk of a recession 
– made worse by a banking crisis – has led to uncertainty in 
enterprise decision-making, affecting spending on capex and 
certain discretionary programs.
Despite this, spending on IT services has been resilient so far. 
Cloud migration programs are continuing apace, and clients 
continue to launch new G&T projects. The higher level of 
uncertainty in the business environment has made clients 
more receptive to proactive proposals around IT and business 
operating model transformations that can not only deliver 
significant efficiencies but also help them become more agile 
and resilient. All this has resulted in a strong order book for 
FY 2023, at $34.1 Bn, which is 1.2 times revenue. The pipeline 
has also grown well.
This provides visibility on medium-term growth amid nearterm uncertainty. If the delayed decision-making and cash 
conservation seen in some segments at the end of FY 2023 
flows over into the first half of FY 2024, that could result in some 
moderation in full year revenue growth after two years of strong 
growth.
Key demand drivers expected to power the company’s growth in 
FY 2024 include:
Technology transformation: IT infrastructure 
modernization, cloud enablement, application and data 
estate modernization, cloud migration, data centre and 
collocated data support, digital workplace, digital twins, 
cyber security, ERP modernization, low-code no-code, 5G/
Edge and AI adoption.
8 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, April 2023

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 95
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
G&T: Customer experience transformation using 
personalization, omnichannel implementation, immersive 
experiences using XR/Metaverse, product and business 
model innovation, supply chain modernization, M&A 
integration / divestitures, sustainability.
Operations: Traditional outsourcing, vendor consolidation 
and multi-services deals, AI/ML-led transformation of IT 
/ business operations for greater resilience and leaner 
operating models, managed services models and real time 
operation visibility.
Enterprise Risk Management9
FY 2023 saw multiple external and internal challenges continuing 
to shape the overall risk profile of the company. Macroeconomic 
and geo-political risks had an impact throughout the year. 
The Russia-Ukraine war and geo-political tensions, trade wars 
and imposed sanctions were pervasive and had direct and 
cascading impacts on economies and businesses. Shortages, 
rising inflation, supply-chain disruptions, energy crisis led to 
further uncertainties in the economic growth environment, 
with the year ending with banking industry upheavals in US and 
Europe. During the year, IT organizations including TCS faced the 
knock-on effects of the pandemic including attrition and impact 
of hybrid modes of working. Technological advancements and 
breakthroughs like generative AI and metaverse have opened up 
new vistas of both risks and opportunities.
TCS continues to monitor this uncertain and dynamic business 
environment very closely and has strengthened the deployment 
of its Enterprise Risk Management framework to address 
the risks and leverage the associated opportunities. This 
framework enables risk identification, risk assessment, risk 
response planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall risk 
governance. Key risk indicators and control indicators are used 
to anticipate risks and assess effectiveness of their mitigation 
actions respectively.
TCS takes a holistic view of its enterprise risk profile, covering 
strategic, operational, compliance, financial and catastrophic 
risks, thus enabling informed decision-making. Risks are 
assessed and managed at various levels with a top-down and 
bottom-up approach across the enterprise, business units, 
geographies, business functions, customer relationships and 
individual projects.
Listed below are some of the key risks, anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies.
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Volatile global 
political and 
economic 
environment 
(R)
Geo-politics and macroeconomic 
volatility can affect demand for the 
company’s services. The ongoing 
Russia-Ukraine war has led to supply 
chain disruptions, energy crisis, food 
and merchandise scarcities and 
related inflation. 
Persistent high inflation in major 
economies could affect consumer 
spending and fuel social unrest. 
Repeated interest rate hikes by central 
banks to rein in the inflation could 
result in economic slowdowns. 
Continuing turmoil in the banking 
sector could affect not only spending 
in that sector, but also squeeze 
liquidity.
All of these could affect clients’ 
business outlook and result in reduced 
demand for TCS’ services. It could also 
increase TCS’ costs of doing business. 
In addition, there could be risks to 
service delivery, business continuity, 
cybersecurity, sanctions compliance 
and human rights risks in geopolitically sensitive zones, all of which 
could increase costs or affect the 
company’s revenue growth. 
Broad-based business mix, well diversified across 
geographies and industry verticals.
Monitor changing geopolitical scenarios, the 
potential business implications and strengthen 
internal controls to further safeguard against 
secondary risks.
Offerings and value propositions targeting all 
stakeholders (in addition to the CIO) in the 
customer organization, covering discretionary as 
well as non-discretionary spends, and relevant at 
every point in the business cycle.
Participate in the customer’s G&T initiatives 
through services and offerings including advisory 
services, migration and modernization of 
applications and workplace transformation using 
location independent agile, deep contextual 
knowledge and data-driven analytics and 
dashboards.
Where customer’s discretionary budgets are 
uncertain, focus on cost and optimization 
propositions in the short term to improve their 
business efficiency.
Negative
9 TCFD Risk Management A, B and C 
10 GRI 3-3 
11 GRI 201-2, TCFD Risk Management A, B and C 

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 96
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Proactively invest in infrastructure and 
resourcing to satisfy anticipated customer 
demand for flexible products and platformsbased solution offerings and subscription-based 
services to gain market share and new clients 
and markets.
Enter into more long-term contracts. 
Target market segments which provide countercyclical support in times of downturn.
Leverage business ecosystem through 
collaboration with partners, start-ups and 
alliances to participate in transformation 
initiatives of customers. 
Country-level business continuity plans in place 
to address potential conflicts in the region.
Talent risk 
due to huge 
demand for 
talent globally 
and attrition 
(R & O)
The company’s ability to attract, 
develop, motivate, and retain talent is 
critical to its business success. 
Talent scarcity can lead to poaching of 
the company’s employees and result 
in higher attrition. This can disrupt 
ongoing projects, slow down planned 
ramp ups and affect revenue growth.
Inability to scale up experienced 
professionals with niche digital skills 
from the market, can also impact TCS’ 
ability to grow.
Commitment to organic talent development, 
best in class learning and development, career 
growth linkage to cross-skilling / upskilling, 
preference to internal talent for new leadership 
positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term 
careers in TCS and improved retention.
Tactical initiatives to retain talent using proactive 
as well as reactive initiatives.
Focused employee engagement to reduce 
attrition, increase sense of belonging and build 
capability to capture the demand from the 
market.
Leverage top employer brand and social 
networking sites and talent sourcing channels to 
tap into the passive pool.
Reduce talent acquisition cycle time to improve 
joining rates through innovative practices.
Engage in various markets through investments 
in STEM/goIT programs, campus engagements, 
local hiring and building reputation to attract 
local talent.
Negative
Opportunity:
Talent scarcity in major markets is 
impeding enterprises’ ability to staff 
projects, increasing the propensity to 
outsource.
Superior talent retention by TCS can 
result in greater delivery certainty and 
therefore a differentiated positioning 
for the company, driving market share 
gains.
Proactive pitches to clients for operating model 
transformations leveraging AI and automation, 
or managed services models to enable tapping 
into global talent pools.
Commitment to organic talent development, 
best in class learning and development, career 
growth linkage to cross-skilling / upskilling, 
preference to internal talent for new leadership 
positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term 
careers in TCS and best in class talent retention.
Positive

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 97
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Focused employee engagement to reduce 
attrition, increase sense of belonging and build 
capacity to capture market share.
Higher level of industrialization, with robust 
processes and controls, and knowledge 
management reduces disruption due to 
attrition of individual team members, and helps 
differentiate TCS.
Restrictions on 
global mobility, 
location 
strategies (R)
Distributed software development 
models require the free movement 
of people across countries and any 
restrictions in key markets pose a 
threat to the global mobility of skilled 
professionals. 
Restrictions could also be due to 
legislations which limit / delay the 
availability of work visas or which 
apply onerous eligibility criteria or 
costs, leading to project delays and 
increased expenses. 
Ongoing monitoring of the global environment, 
working with advisors, partners and 
governments to promote local talent building 
efforts.
Material reduction in dependency on work 
visas through increased local hiring, use of 
contractors, local mobility and training in all 
major markets.
Leveraging the SBWSTM model to deliver from 
anywhere. Use of Location Independent Agile 
to promote systematic collaboration and reduce 
the need for co-location. 
Active engagement in Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Math (STEM) initiatives 
designed to structurally increase the availability 
of engineering talent in major markets.
Greater brand visibility through event 
sponsorships, community outreach, showcasing 
of investments, innovation capabilities and 
employment generation.
Increased outreach to government stakeholders, 
trade bodies, think tanks and research institutes.
Negative
Business model 
changes in 
customer 
enviroment (R 
& O)
Rapidly evolving technologies are 
changing technology consumption 
patterns, creating new classes 
of buyers within the enterprise, 
giving rise to entirely new business 
models and therefore new kinds of 
competitors. 
High levels of economic uncertainty 
can result in clients recalibrating their 
IT programs and pulling back their 
spending on discretionary projects. 
Increased focus on corporate 
restructuring and mergers and 
acquisitions in some industries 
is driving vendor consolidation, 
insourcing and cost reduction 
pressures. 
These changes require agile 
responses. Inability to quickly 
adapt could affect company’s 
competitiveness and result in loss of 
market share.
Investments in innovation and differentiated 
capabilities at scale on emerging technologies 
through large scale reskilling, external hiring, 
research and innovation, solution development 
and IP asset creation leveraging deep contextual 
knowledge across customer specific domain, 
technologies and processes. 
Dedicated business service units providing 
end-to-end transformational and operational 
solutions on leading cloud platforms spanning 
advisory, migration and modernization and 
support of applications.
Constantly scouring the technology landscape 
using strong partnerships with clients, 
technology providers, academia, and start-ups, 
to spot new trends, technologies and potential 
threats, invest early in building capabilities 
to mitigate risks and participate in the 
opportunities.
Negative

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 98
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Steadily expanding coverage of newer buyers 
in the enterprise by constantly launching new 
offerings and solutions to their most pressing 
business problems.
Innovative offerings like operating model 
transformations using TCS Cognix to help 
deliver significant cost savings quickly, Location 
Independent Agile methods to mitigate location 
constraints and pricing and margin pressures.
An entrepreneurial mindset, a decentralized 
decision-making which empowers frontline 
managers to take decisions, and an organization 
structure that enables the company to adapt 
to constantly evolving situations on the ground 
with agility and speed.
Differentiated solutions for organization 
divestiture and integration, catering to M&Ainduced demand for advisory and business 
consolidation related services.
Large portfolio of IP made available on 
hyperscaler clouds to accelerate clients’ Horizon 
2 and 3 transformation journeys.
PacePort co-innovation hubs, Agile innovation 
cloud framework, and extended innovation 
ecosystem including partners and start-ups 
to help clients accelerate their product and 
business model innovation.
Bringing Life to Things framework to help clients 
create connected products, launch remote 
monitoring and maintenance services.
Solutions like TCS HOBS and Servitization engine 
to help clients embrace subscription-based 
business models.
Focused investments to expand presence in 
clients’ growth and transformation spending, 
including programs like Contextual Masters to 
build organizational capacity, new brand tagline, 
amplification of transformation successes.
Platform-based business models and AI-based 
operating models to disrupt conventional labor 
arbitrage based constructs, and gain market 
share.
Opportunity:
Increased focus on corporate 
restructuring and mergers and 
acquisitions in some industries is 
creating new opportunities for IT 
separations and integrations.
Interest in technology-enabled 
business model innovation has 
opened up opportunities for the 
company to participate in clients’ 
growth and transformation spending.
Pressure to establish competitive 
differentiation is driving enterprises 
to look for partners to speed up and 
scale up their innovation efforts. 
This is also driving greater interest 
in pre-built solutions, products and 
platforms that can accelerate the 
deployment of transformational 
solutions.
The quest for cost efficiency along 
with greater resilience and agility 
in operations is expanding the 
opportunity for comprehensive 
operating model transformations.
Positive

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 99
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Currency 
volatility (R)
Volatility in currency exchange 
movements results in transaction and 
translation exposure. TCS’ functional 
currency is the Indian Rupee. 
Appreciation of the Rupee against 
any major currency could impact the 
reported revenue in Rupee terms, 
the profitability and also result in 
collection losses.
Conversely, depreciation could 
optically inflate revenues and 
earnings, distorting stakeholder 
perceptions of the underlying business 
momentum and profitability.
Currency hedging policy that is aligned with 
market best practices, to limit impact of 
short term exchange volatility on receivables, 
forecasted revenue and other current assets and 
liabilities.
Hedging strategies guided and monitored 
periodically by the Risk Management Committee 
of the Board.
Management commentary based on constant 
currency figures to enable a currency-neutral 
understanding of business growth.
Negative / 
Positive
Breach of data 
protection laws 
(R)
The focus on data privacy and 
protection of personal data has 
increased compliance risk. 
Legislations like GDPR in Europe 
carry severe consequences for 
non-compliance or breach. Many 
other countries have enacted or are 
enacting their Data Privacy regulations 
to ensure protection of personal data. 
Violation of data protection laws 
or security breaches can result 
in substantive liabilities, fines or 
penalties and reputational impact. 
Global privacy policy covering all geographies, 
all areas of operations, and stakeholders, which 
sets out the privacy principles and guidance for 
deployment. 
Organization structure with the Global Privacy 
Office to strategize, monitor and guide 
deployment of data privacy framework across 
the enterprise. Data Protection Officers and 
other privacy officers have been appointed 
for TCS entities as required by local privacy 
regulations to monitor and drive implementation 
of data protection principles. Business Privacy 
Leaders are appointed to deploy compliance to 
the data privacy framework in all functions and 
business units.
Unified global framework PrivACE adopted 
across all entities and branches to standardize 
privacy practices while catering to local 
requirements. 
Continuous monitoring and analysis of changes 
to regulatory and legal landscape and enhancing 
the data privacy framework.
Privacy Information Management Systems (ISO 
27701:2019) adopted and certified. 
Embedded privacy by design and privacy by 
default principles in development of new 
or changed internal processes, services and 
products. 
Data protection controls and robust risk 
response mechanisms to protect personal data 
in the TCS ecosystem and also in customer 
engagements. 
Industry standard data masking and encryption 
technologies to protect personal data. 
Negative

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 100
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Vendors and third parties subjected to due 
diligence, contracted with appropriate privacy 
obligations and tracked for compliance based on 
risk assessment.
Mandatory trainings and workshops on data 
protection, Privacy by Design and global 
privacy regulations. Continuous awareness 
campaigns through blog posts, email broadcasts, 
gamification, roadshows and online events.
Risk assessments related to cross border 
transfers and maintaining data transfer 
agreements, where required for the transfer of 
data across jurisdictions. 
Periodic reviews and audits by independent 
audit firm to verify compliance to obligations in 
addition to internal audits across the ecosystem.
Cyber Attacks 
(R & O)
Risks of cyber-attacks are on the rise due to 
the fast-evolving nature of the threat. There 
is also an increased risk due to various 
pandemic themed cyber threats and attacks 
due to geo-political drivers. 
In addition to impact on business 
operations, a security breach could result 
in reputational damage, penalties and legal 
and financial liabilities.
Use of advanced tools based on AI/ML to 
prevent and detect incursions with quarantine 
capabilities, including perimeter security 
controls with advanced tools, enhanced internal 
vulnerability detection, data leak prevention 
tools, defined and tested incident management 
and recovery process in compliance with 
industry best practices. 
Continued reinforcement of stringent security 
policies and procedures (certified against ISO 
27001) including enhanced security measures 
and awareness building to combat phishing 
attempts and soliciting for fraudulent causes or 
charities through social media, text or calls.
Close collaboration with Computer Emergency 
Response Team (CERT) and other private cyber 
intelligence agencies, and enhanced awareness 
of emerging cyber threats.
Enterprise-wide training and awareness 
programs on Information Security including the 
extensively used enterprise-wide communication 
and collaboration platforms accessed through 
mobile or desktop channels.
Strict access controls including non-persistent 
passwords (OTP) for secure access to enterprise 
applications/network, special handling of 
privileged administrator accounts, rigorous 
access management on all cloud deployments. 
Encryption of data, data back-up and recovery 
mechanisms for ensuring business continuity.
Negative

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 101
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network 
from client network and defined escalation 
mechanisms to handle security incidents in client 
environment.
Periodic rigorous testing to validate effectiveness 
of controls through vulnerability assessment and 
penetration testing.
Internal and external audits, red teaming, 
“breach and attack” simulation.
Sourcing threat intelligence from various 
government, public and private sources to 
proactively block IPs used by threat actors.
State of the art security operations center with 
automated playbooks. 
Opportunity:
Enterprises are increasing their 
investments in building cyber 
resilience and turning to specialized 
third parties to be detect and foil 
intrusion attempts and limit the 
impact. 
This presents a fast growing business 
opportunity for TCS to become the 
preferred cyber security partner to its 
clients.
Investments in building local threat management 
centers across the world.
Launch of new services and solutions including 
the Cyber Defense Suite.
Positive
Noncompliance to 
complex and 
changing global 
regulations (R)
As a global organization, the company 
has to comply with complex regulatory 
requirements across multiple 
jurisdictions, covering across a 
broad range of areas grouped under 
environmental, social and governance 
themes.
The fast pace and complex 
nature of changes in the 
regulatory requirements requires 
quick identification and sound 
understanding of these requirements 
along with agility in adaptation in 
business operations. Failure to comply 
could result in penalties, reputational 
damage and criminal prosecution. 
Deployment of a comprehensive global 
compliance management framework that 
enables tracking of regulatory changes across 
various jurisdictions, including new countries 
of operations and functional areas and 
management of compliance risks. 
In-house digitized regulatory compliance 
platform enabling clear accountability, tracking 
of compliance obligations and governance to 
ensure long-term business sustainability.
Operationalized regulatory requirements 
through business policies and embedding into 
business processes.
100% digitized, quarterly regulatory compliance 
declarations enabling self-governance of all 
compliance areas applicable to company’s global 
operations.
Up to date, effective internal controls to comply 
with regulations, keep a check on unlawful 
and fraudulent activities and internal audits to 
provide compliance assurance.
Negative

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 102
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Strong focus on fostering ethical and compliance 
culture; awareness through web-based 
compliance training courses for all staff and 
regular notifications/alerts on regulatory 
changes communicated to stakeholders. 
Strong governance at board, executive and 
management levels through compliance 
committees and compliance working groups.
Intellectual 
Property (IP) 
infringement 
and leakage (R)
Risk of infringement of IP of third 
parties including suppliers, partners 
and alliance organizations by TCS may 
lead to potential liabilities, increased 
litigation and impact reputation. 
Inadequate protection of TCS’ IP may 
lead to potential loss of ownership 
rights, revenue and value. 
Establishment of an industry leading IP 
management framework (IP 4.0) with 
institutionalized frameworks, processes and 
procedures that address the risk of infringement 
of third-party IP while ensuring safeguarding of 
TCS’ own IP assets. 
Establishment of a centralized IP and Software 
Product Engineering group that strives to build 
an IP-led culture and IP related awareness 
effectively. 
Well-defined (software) asset lifecycle 
governance framework that incorporates 
policy guidance and risk mitigation guidelines 
on IP, legal, software product engineering and 
business-related risks. 
IP governance program that ensures that there 
is right access and right use of TCS IP, customer 
IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in service and 
partner engagements.
Other key controls include employee 
confidentiality agreement, training and 
awareness for IP protection and prevention of 
IP contamination and infringement. Digitized 
system to enable strict controls around 
movement of people and information across 
TCS’ product teams and customer account 
teams.
Negative
Litigation risks 
(R)
Litigation risks might arise from 
commercial disputes, perceived 
violation of intellectual property 
rights/trade secret violations and 
employment related matters. 
The company’s rising profile and scale 
also makes it an attractive target to 
meritless lawsuits.
Besides the distraction and legal 
expense, litigations garner negative 
media attention and pose reputation 
risk. Adverse rulings can result in 
substantive damages.
Strengthening internal processes and controls to 
adequately ensure compliance with contractual 
obligations, information security and compliance 
with IP policies and procedures for protection 
of intellectual property and avoidance of 
allegations of trade secret violations.
Improved governance and controls over 
immigration process /increasing localization and 
inclusion of arbitration provisions in employment 
contracts.
Training and sensitization of business managers 
to spot the risks, adhere to best practices 
and escalate potential disputes within the 
organization for early mitigation steps.
Negative

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 103
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Team of in-house counsels in all major 
geographies and a network of reputed global law 
firms in countries it operates in.
Robust mechanism to track and respond to 
notices as well as defend the company’s position 
in all claims and litigation.
Sustainability 
Risks - Climate 
change and 
Environmental 
aspects (R & 
O)12
Extreme weather events due to 
climate change pose a threat to 
human safety and can cause business 
disruptions. 
With globally distributed operations, 
the company faces physical risks to life 
and property due to extreme weather 
events, transition risks resulting 
from disruptions in the market and 
emerging regulations, disruptions 
to operations due to water scarcity, 
risks of inadvertent non-compliance 
to emerging regulatory requirements 
around circular economy, e-waste and 
solid waste regulations, impacting 
health and safety in local communities, 
business disruption and reputational 
damage. All of these could affect TCS’ 
growth and profitability.
An environmentally sustainable approach 
through green policies, processes, frameworks 
and infrastructure, on target to achieve net zero 
carbon emissions by 2030. 
Delivery centers designed to withstand extreme 
weather events. Business continuity plans are 
tested periodically to ensure effectiveness. 
Green buildings, efficient operations, green 
IT, greater use of renewable energy to 
reduce carbon footprint; adoption of newer 
technologies and methods to manage waste in 
line with circular economy principles.
Operational and engineering controls to 
minimize freshwater consumption, upgradation 
of water infrastructure and more water efficient 
systems.
Water management through sewage treatment, 
recycling of treated water and rainwater 
harvesting. 
Supply chain sustainability through responsible 
sourcing, including leveraging sustainability 
ratings platform.
Year-round employee engagement on 
environmental awareness and sensitizing them 
towards nature and conservation of resources.
Initiatives like TCS Circle4Llife™ and 
Sustainathons to come up with technology-led 
innovations to safeguard TCS’ environment.
Negative
Opportunity:
As enterprises look to reduce their 
own carbon footprint and cater 
to the growing demand more 
environmentally friendly products and 
services, it opens up new business 
opportunities for TCS to provide 
technology-led solutions to help them 
realize their green plans.
Proactive measures taken by TCS to 
reduce its environmental footprint 
strengthens the brand and makes it 
attractive to enterprises looking for an 
IT partner with a shared purpose. It 
also helps attract and retain younger, 
more purpose-driven employees.
Dedicated business units for each of the large 
hyperscaler providers, helping clients migrate 
their workloads from owned data centers to the 
cloud, thereby reducing the carbon footprint 
associated with those workloads.
Steadily expanding suite of sustainability services 
including designing sustainability strategy, 
sustainability innovation, sustainable consumer 
analytics and sustainability dashboards.
Build and promote TCS products and solutions 
such as TCS Clever Energy™, Envirozone™, 
ESG integration solution, to help accelerate 
customers’ sustainability journeys. 
Positive

TCFD Metrics and Targets B

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 104
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Risks (R) 
/ Opportunity 
(O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Challenges and 
Opportunities 
with Disruptive 
Technologies 
(R & O)
Disruptive cutting-edge technologies like 
quantum computing, generative AI and 
large language models and metaverse could 
impact TCS’ business:
Quantum computing may increase 
exposure to cyberattacks because 
existing security infrastructure may 
prove inadequate.
Generative AI, large language models 
and metaverse could lead to legal 
liabilities through plagiarism, deep 
fakes and privacy and copyright 
infringement issues. 
The efficacy of AI models depends on 
the quality of the data they are trained 
on. Unless specifically designed to 
prevent such outcomes, the models 
could be vitiated by all kinds of 
human biases contained in large data 
sets, and produce outcomes that 
cause reputational damage and legal 
liabilities. 
Generative AI technologies could 
disrupt software development and 
testing activities, distorting customer 
expectations in the short term.
Ensure controlled use of these technologies 
through pilots/research. 
Restricted access to generative AI technologies 
like ChatGPT on company network until proven 
safe.
Work with government bodies, regulators and 
academia to build consensus about policies and 
guidelines for use of these technologies.
Embark on large-scale skilling of employees to 
prepare for deployment on market-oriented 
products and services based on these 
technologies.
Participate as a member of industry specific large 
language models consortia.
Negative
Opportunity:
Generative AI technologies also have 
the potential to reimagine existing 
products and services and can also 
open up opportunities in form of new 
solutions using those technologies, 
and new services needing newer kinds 
of skills.
Proactively invest in research around embedding 
generative AI capabilities into software 
development processes to boost productivity.
Develop niche skills to tap demand created 
for Post Quantum cryptography services 
as customers seek Quantum safe security 
algorithms.
Leverage opportunities to market TCS’ own 
generative AI tools and services as overall 
attention and adoption of the technology 
increases.
Positive

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 105
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Internal Financial Control Systems and their Adequacy
TCS has aligned its current systems of internal financial control 
with the requirement of Companies Act, 2013, on the lines 
of the globally accepted risk-based framework issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway 
Commission. The Internal Control – Integrated Framework 
(the 2013 framework) is intended to increase transparency 
and accountability in an organization’s process of designing 
and implementing a system of internal control. The framework 
requires a company to identify and analyze risks and manage 
appropriate responses. The company has successfully laid down 
the framework and ensured its effectiveness.
TCS’ internal controls are commensurate with its size and the 
nature of its operations. These have been designed to provide 
reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing 
reliable financial and operational information, complying with 
applicable statutes, safeguarding assets from unauthorized use, 
executing transactions with proper authorization and ensuring 
compliance with corporate policies. TCS has a well-defined 
delegation of power with authority limits for approving contracts 
as well as expenditure. Processes for formulating and reviewing 
annual and long-term business plans have been laid down. 
TCS uses a state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system that connects all parts of the organization, to record data 
for accounting, consolidation and management information 
purposes. It has continued its efforts to align all its processes 
and controls with global best practices.
TCS management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s 
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Regulation 
17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) as of March 31, 2023.
B S R & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS have audited the 
financial statements included in this annual report and have 
issued an attestation report on the company’s internal control 
over financial reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies 
Act, 2013).
TCS has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Services LLP (PwC)
LLP to oversee and carry out internal audit of its activities. The 
audit is based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed each 
year in consultation with the statutory auditors and approved 
by the Audit Committee. In line with international practice, 
the conduct of internal audit is oriented towards the review of 
internal controls and risks in the company’s operations such 
as software delivery, accounting and finance, procurement, 
employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes, including 
the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized third party 
consultants and professionals for business specific compliances 
such as quality management, service management, information 
security, etc. The Audit Committee reviews reports submitted 
by the management and audit reports submitted by internal 
auditors and statutory auditors. Suggestions for improvement 
are considered and the audit committee follows up on corrective 
action. The audit committee also meets TCS’ statutory auditors 
to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy of internal 
control systems and keeps the board of directors informed of its 
major observations periodically.
Based on its evaluation (as defined in section 177 of Companies 
Act 2013 and Regulation 18 of SEBI LODR), TCS’ Audit Committee 
has concluded that, as of March 31, 2023, the company’s 
internal financial controls were adequate and operating 
effectively.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 106
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Performance Trend – 10 years
(₹ Crore)
 Ind AS 
Indian GAAP
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2021*
FY 2021
FY 2020
FY 2019
FY 2018
FY 2017
FY 2016
FY 2015#
FY 2015
FY 2014
Revenue from operations
Total revenue from operations
225,458 
191,754 
164,177 
164,177 
156,949 
146,463 
123,104 
117,966 
108,646 
94,648 
94,648 
81,809 
Revenue by geographic segments
Americas
124,336 
100,072 
84,278 
84,278 
82,000 
77,562 
66,145 
66,091 
60,011 
51,053 
51,053 
45,259 
Europe
67,436 
61,142 
52,346 
52,346 
48,037 
43,456 
34,155 
30,038 
29,092 
26,730 
26,730 
23,433 
India
11,271 
9,805 
8,449 
8,449 
8,964 
8,393 
7,921 
7,415 
6,729 
6,108 
6,108 
5,488 
Others
22,415 
20,735 
19,104 
19,104 
17,948 
17,052 
14,883 
14,422 
12,814 
10,757 
10,757 
7,629 
Cost
Employee cost
127,522 
107,554 
91,814 
91,814 
85,952 
78,246 
66,396 
61,621 
55,348 
48,296 
50,924 
40,486 
Other operating cost
38,677 
31,143 
25,817 
27,035 
28,888 
28,711 
24,192 
24,034 
22,621 
19,242 
19,242 
16,170 
Total cost (excluding interest & 
depreciation)
166,199 
138,697 
117,631 
118,849 
114,840 
106,957 
90,588 
85,655 
77,969 
67,538 
70,166 
56,656 
Profitability
EBITDA (before other income)
59,259 
53,057 
46,546 
45,328 
42,109 
39,506 
32,516 
32,311 
30,677 
27,110 
24,482 
25,153 
Profit before tax
56,907 
51,687 
44,978 
43,760 
42,248 
41,563 
34,092 
34,513 
31,840 
28,437 
25,809 
25,402 
Profit after tax attributable to 
shareholders of the Company
42,147 
38,327 
33,388 
32,430 
32,340 
31,472 
25,826 
26,289 
24,270 
21,912 
19,852 
19,164 
Financial Position
Equity share capital

Reserves and surplus
90,058 
88,773 
87,014 
86,063 
83,751 
89,071 
84,937 
86,017 
70,875 
52,499 
50,439 
48,999 
Gross block of property, plant and 
equipment
32,344 
30,300 
28,658 
28,658 
26,444 
24,522 
22,720 
20,891 
19,308 
16,624 
16,624 
13,162 
Total investments 
37,163 
30,485 
29,373 
29,373 
26,356 
29,330 
36,008 
41,980 
22,822 
1,662 
1,662 
3,434 
Net current assets
66,712 
65,959 
66,076 
65,125 
63,177 
70,047 
63,396 
65,804 
47,644 
30,726 
28,495 
27,227 
Earnings per share in ₹
EPS - as reported
115.19 
103.62 
89.27 
86.71 
86.19 
83.05 
134.19 
133.41 
123.18 
111.87 
101.35 
97.67 
EPS - adjusted for Bonus Issue
115.19 
103.62 
89.27 
86.71 
86.19 
83.05 
67.10 
66.71 
61.59 
55.94 
50.68 
48.84 
Headcount (number)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headcount (including subsidiaries) 
as on March 31st
614,795 
592,195 
488,649 
488,649 
448,464 
424,285 
394,998 
387,223 
353,843 
319,656 
319,656 
300,464 
Note : The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 107
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Overview of Funds Invested 
Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income.
(` Crore)
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
Current
Non-current
Total funds invested
Investments in mutual funds, Government 
securities and others
36,897
30,262

37,127
30,449
Deposits with banks
8,223
15,784
1,334
1,232
9,557
17,016
Inter-corporate deposits

6,074

1,016
6,377
Cash and bank balances
2,124
2,211
2,124
2,211
Total
48,090
54,331
1,734
1,722
49,824
56,053
Total invested funds include ₹2,080 crore and ₹1,722 crore for FY 2023 and FY 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and 
TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
Ratio Analysis – 10 years 
Ind As
Indian GAAP
Unit


2021*






2015#


Ratios - Financial Performance
Employee Cost / Total Revenue
 56.6
 56.1
 55.9
 55.9
 54.8
 53.4
 53.9
 52.2
 50.9
 51.0
 53.8
 49.5
Other Operating Cost / Total 
Revenue
 17.1
 16.2
 15.7
 16.5
 18.4
 19.6
 19.7
 20.4
 20.9
 20.4
 20.3
 19.8
Total cost (excluding interest & 
depreciation) / Total Revenue
 73.7
 72.3
 71.6
 72.4
 73.2
 73.0
 73.6
 72.6
 71.8
 71.4
 74.1
 69.3
EBITDA (Before Other Income) 
/ Total Revenue
 26.3
 27.7
 28.4
 27.6
 26.8
 27.0
 26.4
 27.4
 28.2
 28.6
 25.9
 30.7
Profit Before Tax / Total 
Revenue
 25.2
 27.0
 27.4
 26.7
 26.9
 28.4
 27.7
 29.3
 29.3
 30.0
 27.3
 31.1
Tax / Total Revenue
6.5
6.9
7.0
6.8
6.2
 6.8
 6.7
 6.9
 6.9
 7.2
 6.6
 7.4
Effective Tax Rate - Tax / PBT
25.7
 25.6
 25.5
 25.6
 23.2
 24.1
 24.1
 23.6
 23.6
 23.5
 23.7
 23.9
Profit After Tax / Total Revenue
 18.7
 20.0
 20.3
 19.8
 20.6
 21.5
 21.0
 22.3
 22.3
 23.2
 21.0
 23.4
Ratios - Growth
Total Revenue
 17.6
 16.8
 4.6
 4.6
 7.2
 19.0
 4.4
 8.6
 14.8
 15.7
 15.7
 29.9
EBITDA (Before Other Income)
 11.7
 14.0
 10.5
 7.6
 6.6
 21.5
 0.6
 5.3
 25.3
 7.8
 (2.7)
 39.4
Profit After Tax
 10.0
 14.8
 3.2
 0.3
 2.8
 21.9
 (1.8)
 8.3
 22.3
 14.3
 3.6
 37.7
Ratios - Balance Sheet
Debt (excluding lease liabilities) 
- Equity Ratio
Times
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
Current Ratio
Times
 2.5
 2.6
 3.0
 2.9
 3.3
 4.2
 4.6
 5.5
 4.1
 3.9
 2.4
 2.7
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) 
in ` terms
Days

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) 
in $ terms
Days

Invested Funds / Capital 
Employed
 50.4
 57.4
 52.6
 53.1
 47.7
 55.2
 55.6
 55.8
 45.8
 42.3
 43.9
 44.0
Capital Expenditure / Total 
Revenue
 1.4
 1.5
 1.9
 1.9
 2.0
 1.5
 1.5
 1.7
 1.8
 3.1
 3.1
 3.8
Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Management Discussion and Analysis
 | 108
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Ind As
Indian GAAP
Unit


2021*






2015#


Operating Cash Flows / Total 
Revenue
 18.6
 20.8
 23.6
 23.6
 20.6
 19.5
 20.4
 21.4
 17.6
 20.5
 20.5
 18.0
Free Cash Flow / Operating 
Cash Flow Ratio
 92.7
 92.6
 91.9
 91.9
 90.5
 92.5
 92.8
 92.3
 89.7
 84.8
 84.8
 78.9
Depreciation of Property, Plant 
and Equipment / Average Gross 
Block of Property, Plant and 
Equipment
 9.2
 9.1
 8.7
 8.7
 8.6
 8.5
 9.1
 9.5
 10.0
 11.7
 11.7
 10.6
Ratios - Per Share
EPS - adjusted for Bonus
115.19 103.62 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84
Price Earnings Ratio, end of 
year
Times
 27.8
 36.1
 35.6
 36.6
 21.2
 24.1
 21.2
 18.2
 20.4
 22.8
 25.1
 21.8
Dividend Per Share
115.00
 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 50.00 47.00 43.50 79.00 79.00 32.00
Dividend Per Share - adjusted 
for Bonus
115.00
 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 25.00 23.50 21.75 39.50 39.50 16.00
Market Capitalization / Total 
Revenue
Times
 5.2
 7.1
 7.2
 7.2
 4.4
 5.1
 4.4
 4.1
 4.6
 5.3
 5.3
 5.1
Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Awards and Accolades | 109
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Capital
Ranked #1 by revenue in the UK across the entire 
technology ecosystem for the second year, in the 2022 
TechMarketView UK Software and IT Services Supplier 
Rankings.
Ranked #2, up one place over the prior year’s position, 
in CRN’s 2022 Solution Provider 500 rankings of the top 
system integrators, service providers and IT consultants by 
revenue in North America.
Won 3 awards at the India Risk Management Awards 
(IRMA) 2022 by ICICI Lombard and CNBC-TV18: ‘Masters 
of Risk in IT-ITes’ under the Large Cap category, Masters 
of Risk in Regulatory Compliance and Masters of Risk in 
Cyber Security.
Recognized with a special award in the category `Regional 
Asian Investor in Ireland’, at the 2022 Asia Matters 
Business Awards.
Intellectual Capital
Awarded the Asia IP Elite Award 2022 for being an 
Exemplar of IP Value.
Named the Top Indian Company for Creating Brand in 
India and Abroad and awarded the World Intellectual 
Property Organization’s (WIPO’s) Users Trophy at the 
National Intellectual Property Awards 2021 & 2022.
Won ASSOCHAM IP Excellence Award for Best Intellectual 
Property (IP) Portfolio in the Large Enterprises category.
Won the CXO Tech Innovation Award for digital innovation 
in smart collaboration at the CXO Tech Awards 2022.
Recognized with `The Innovative 100’ and `Mission Critical 
Master’ awards by CIO 100 India.
TCS BaNCS™ ranked # 1 in the Investment and Fund 
Management category for the third consecutive year, and 
#2 in the InsurTech category in the IBS Intelligence Sales 
League Tables for 2022. 
TCS Quartz™ for Markets recognized as Best New Post 
Trade Solution of the Year by Financial Technologies 
Forum.
TCS Quartz recognized as an Industry Special Leader 
and ranked #1 Fraud Management solution in the IBS 
Intelligence Sales League Tables for 2022.
TCS Quartz won Outstanding Innovation of the Year at the 
Industry Excellence Awards by the Asset Servicing Times.
TCS OmniStore™ won the Omnichannel Technology of the 
Year award from Retail Systems for delivering a seamless 
customer experience.
TCS OmniStore and TCS Optumera™ won 2 Stevies at the 
International Business Awards 2022 in the AI/ML solution 
category.
The TCS Smart Store solution won the Best Customer 
Solution award at the IoT Solution Awards 2022 during the 
IoT Solutions World Congress.
TCS Marketing Data Hub won the Economic Times DATA 
CON Awards 2022 for Automated Data Management.
CS Design Toolkit was awarded a Bronze award at 
the Stevie Awards Asia Pacific 2022 for Innovative 
Achievement in Customer Satisfaction.
TCS ADD™ Connected Clinical Trials platform won the India 
Pharma Award 2022 in the category, Excellence in Ancillary 
Pharma Services.
Awards and 
Accolades

Awards and Accolades | 110
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Won an award for Revenue Generation (Customer 
Experience) at the Mint TechCircle Business Transformation 
Awards 2022.
Awarded SAP Customer Award for “Best supplier 
collaboration story” for TCS Procurement 4.0.
Won the Customer Innovation Award from Commvault 
in the Governance and compliance category for Digital 
Compliance solution.
Won a Gold at the Indian Smart Grid Forum Innovation 
Awards 2023 in the category ‘Smart Technology - 
Electricity Transmission’ for AI-Powered Control and 
Management of Power Networks.
Awarded 2 Golds at the 12th Competition on Software 
Verification (SV-COMP 2023) in the Reach Safety and 
Termination categories for TCS Research’s tools VeriAbs 
and FuzzNT respectively. 
Won the `Special Purpose Vehicle Design’ Award at 
the 12th CII Design Excellence Awards 2022 for PalPicker, 
a fork-over autonomous mobile robot by TCS.
Won 5 Stevies® in different categories at the 2023 Stevie® 
Awards for Sales & Customer Service, for solutions 
targeting the BFSI vertical.
Won 2 awards at 2022 Brandon Hall Group Excellence in 
Technology Awards: 1 Gold for Best Advance in Business 
Strategy and Technology Innovation and 1 Silver for Best 
Advance in Learning Management Technology.
TCS products and solutions won 2 Gold, 3 Silver and 
1 Bronze Stevies at the Stevie International Business 
Awards® 2022: 1 Gold in the Project Management 
Solution category for TCS Allocation Reimagination, 1 
Gold in the Software Defined Infrastructure category 
for TCS Infrastructure as Code; 2 Silvers in the Artificial 
Intelligence/ Machine Learning Solution category for TCS 
Optumera™ and TCS OmniStore™; 1 Silver Stevie in the 
Event Management Solution category for TCS Prime Events 
and 1 Bronze in the Collaboration/Social Networking 
Solution category for TCS Enterprise Social Collaboration.
Human Capital
Named in the Forbes annual list of America’s Best Large 
Employers, based on an independent survey of 45,000 
employees working for American companies with more 
than 1,000 employees.
Certified as a Global Top Employer 2023 by the Top 
Employers Institute: 
 
Recognized as a Top Employer in Europe for the 
eleventh consecutive year, and the Number One 
Top Employer in Belgium, Denmark, and The 
Netherlands.
 
Recognized as a Top Employer in the UAE, Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, and South Africa for the eighth 
successive year.
Featured in 2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index.
Won the Best of Best award from Association for Talent 
Development (ATD) for the fifth time in a row.
Won 4 Golds and 1 Silver at the ET HR Future Skills awards 
for best learning teams.
Recognized among the Most Preferred Workplaces 2022 
by Team Marksmen in collaboration with India Today 
Television.
Won 6 Gold and 2 Silver awards at the 14th Annual 
2022 Golden Bridge (Globee) Business and Innovation 
Awards in the following HR categories: Achievement of 
the Year in Learning and Development, Best Use of Reward 
and Recognition, Most Effective Use of HR Technology, 
Most Effective Use of Internal Communications, Human 
Resources Outstanding Performance of the Year and 
Human Resources Project or Initiative of the Year.
Won 32 Brandon Hall awards (21 Golds, 7 Silvers and 4 
Bronzes) and 13 Stevie awards (5 Golds, 5 Silvers and 3 
Bronzes) across various functions in HR.
Won the Indian Achievers’ Award 2022 for Excellence in 
Industry Academia Collaboration from Indian Achievers 
Forum for the second year in a row.
Social Capital
CUSTOMER
Ranked the #1 IT service provider for customer 
satisfaction in Europe in an independent survey of over 
1,800 CXOs of the continent’s top IT spenders by Whitelane 
Research. This is the tenth consecutive year that TCS 
has topped this survey. TCS was also ranked #1 in France, 
Germany and the Nordics in the country-specific rankings 
published in Q4.
Ranked #1 in customer satisfaction in the UK, for the 
seventh year by Whitelane Research, with an overall 
customer satisfaction score of 82%. 
Won the Supplier of the Year award in the Large Category 
(by spend) at the 2022 Microsoft Supplier Prestige 
Awards.
Won the 2022 Best IT Supplier Award from Infineon 
Technologies AG.
TCS and Virgin Media O2 won the GSA Professional Award 
2022 in the category of Customer Experience Team of the 
Year for the technology transformation resulting in a cloudnative, resilient, future-ready IT infrastructure.

Awards and Accolades | 111
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
INDUSTRY ANALYST 
TCS was ranked a Leader in 126 competitive assessments 
published by leading research firms in FY 2023 (92 in FY 
2022). In 15 of these, TCS was positioned the foremost 
leader or ranked #1.
Won the 2021 Best Practices Company of the Year Award 
for its visionary innovation, market-leading performance, 
and unmatched customer impact in the GCC’s Business 
Process Outsourcing Industry by Frost and Sullivan.
INVESTOR
Recognized in FinanceAsia’s Best Managed Companies 2022 
list as the Best Managed Company and Most Effective in 
creating and implementing D&I Policies over the past 12 
months, in India, based on a poll of investors and analysts 
across Asia.
PARTNER
Won three 2022 Microsoft Partner of the Year awards in 
the categories: SAP on Azure, Retail & Consumer Goods, 
and Global SI & Advisory Digital Transformation.
Named to the Microsoft Business Applications 2022/2023 
Inner Circle, for the third consecutive year. This is based on 
TCS’ sales achievements that place it in the top echelons 
of Microsoft Business Applications’ global network of 
partners.
Recognized as the Microsoft Customer Success Partner 
of the Year for its commitment and dedication to building 
strong customer relationships and helping clients achieve 
their businesses success.
Won two Google Cloud Partner of the Year 2021 awards 
in the categories: Industry Solution Partner of the Year 
for Retail and Global Diversity & Inclusion Partner of the 
Year.
Recognized as Enterprise Partner of the Year at the India 
2022 AWS Partners of the Year awards; as the Security 
Partner of the Year (APJ) and Migration Partner of the 
Year (APJ) at the 2022 Regional and Global AWS Partners 
of the Year Awards.
Won ANZ 2022 AWS Partners of the Year award in the 
category Global Systems Integrator; and GSI Partner of 
the Year award at the AWS Summit, Bogota, Colombia.
TCS Interactive won the Digital Experience (DX) Partner of 
the Year 2022 award from Adobe.
Recognized as Global Partner of the Year 2022 by Beyond 
Trust.
Won Pega’s Industry Excellence Award for Financial 
Services at the PegaWorldiNspire 2022.
Awarded Partner of the Year 2022 by Creatio for 
outstanding commitment to partnership and implementation 
of solutions.
Won the SAP System Integrator BeLux 2022 award at 
the SAP BeLux Partner Awards for its strong partnership 
with SAP and its ongoing commitment to digital 
transformation and optimizing business processes.
Won the Consulting Partner award in Manufacturing and 
Energy at the Salesforce 2022 Partner Innovation Awards.
Named Intel Global System Integrator Partner of the year 
2022.
Won Qlik Global Transformation Awards 2022 for Partners 
Leveraging Active Intelligence for Transformation and 
Impact.
Won the Qlik Partner Excellence Award FY 21-22 in the 
category `Most Deal Influencer SI Partner’.
Won 3 partner awards from Software AG: EMEA IOT 
Partner, EMEA hybrid Integration Partner and Global 
Hybrid Integration Partner.
Won the ‘Transformation Partner of the Year Award’ at 
the Hitachi Vantara GSI Summit 2022 in Lisbon, Portugal. 
Won the SUSE India Innovation Hero Award 2022 in the 
`Kubernetes Innovators’ category.
Won the ‘Emerging Partner of the Year 2022’ award from 
Nexthink.
Recognized as BMC’s Partner of the Year 2022 in the 
category `Digital Business Automation’.
Won the 2022 Growth Global System Integrator Partner 
of the Year award from Nutanix.
Won the APJ Top Alliance Growth Partner of the Year 
Award at Microfocus Partner Leadership Summit 2022.
Won 2 awards at Yellow.ai’s first-ever Virtual Partner 
Success Kickoff: Industry Partner of the Year – North 
America and Digital Transformation Award for TCS BaNCS.
Awarded by Siemens for the Highest Enterprise Sales 
Achievement for the Year 2022.
Recognized by Informatica as the Growth Global System 
Integrator Partner of the Year 2022.
Won 2 partner awards from Quadient at Inspire 
Days 2023: Services Partner of the Year – Americas 
and Breakthrough Partner of the Year – EMEA.
Named by Saviynt as the ‘Delivery Partner of the Year’ for 
APAC region.

Awards and Accolades | 112
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
COMMUNITY
Named as one of the top 50 community-minded 
companies in the United States; recognized as the 
Information Technology Sector Lead for the fourth year 
and honored with the Strategic Volunteer Award for 
aligning employee volunteer time and talent with its 
strategic CSR programs.
Won the Gold award in the WASH Initiative category at the 
6th CSR Health Impact Awards for TCS’ IoTbased smart 
water management solution in support of the Government 
of India’s Jal Jeevan Mission.
Ranked the 2nd Largest CSR Spender according to the 
2022 Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 list.
Awarded Gold at The Economic Times Human Capital 
Awards 2022 in the Excellence in Social Initiative 
category for the Sadhana SamarpaN initiative under TCS 
Purpose4Life.
BRAND 
Named in the Fortune® magazine’s 2023 list of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies.
Ranked the second most valuable IT services brand 
globally by Brand Finance. 
Only brand from India in the Top 50 in the 2022 Kantar 
BrandZ Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands; also ranked 
among the Top 10 fastest growing brands globally.
TCS brand ranked #4 overall and #1 among all technology 
firms in the 2022 FutureBrand Index for innovation, 
good customer service, contented workforce and strong 
management. 
Ranked as the most valuable Indian brand by Kantar 
BrandZ India; TCS’ brand value rose 212% from 2020 to 
2022.
Ranked as the second most valuable Indian company by 
the 2022 Hurun Global 500 report.
Won a Gold at the ITSMA 2022 Marketing Excellence 
Awards in the category `Collaborating with Sales’ for 
Digital Store.
Won a Drum Award for B2B 2022 in the category ‘Most 
Effective Digital Transformation Initiative’.
Natural Capital
Won first place at the Celonis Ecosystem Hackathon for 
Smart Metering for Utilities to Reduce CO2 Emissions 
under the Use Case Ideation category.
TCS’ Digital Farming Initiatives won the NASSCOM 
Enterprise Cloud Awards ‘22 in the category `Excellence in 
Leveraging Cloud for Sustainability’.
TCS’ Food Digital Twin won the 2022 Vivekananda 
Sustainability Award for ‘Innovative Use of Technology for 
Environmental Improvement’.
Won an award for ‘Natural Resources Conservation’ at the 
Dun & Bradstreet ESG Awards 2023.

Corporate Governance Report | 113
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
 
Effective corporate governance practices constitute 
the strong foundation on which successful commercial 
enterprises are built to last. The Company’s philosophy on 
corporate governance oversees business strategies and 
ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour 
and fairness to all stakeholders comprising employees, 
investors, customers, regulators, suppliers and the 
society at large. Strong leadership and effective corporate 
governance practices have been the Company’s hallmark 
inherited from the Tata culture and ethos.
 
The Company follows the Tata Group philosophy of building 
sustainable businesses that are rooted in the community 
and demonstrate care for the environment. Being a 
part of the Tata Group, which epitomizes sustainability, 
the Company has inherited a strong legacy of fair and 
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in the Tata 
Code of Conduct (TCoC).
 
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its 
employees including the Chief Executive Officer and 
Managing Director and the Executive Directors. In addition, 
the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its nonexecutive directors which includes Code of Conduct for 
Independent Directors that suitably incorporates the duties 
of independent directors as laid down in the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
 
The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been 
further strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence 
Model, the TCS Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices 
(“Insider Trading Code”). The Company has in place an 
Information Security Policy that ensures proper utilization 
of IT resources.
 
The Company is in compliance with the requirements 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 read with Schedule 
V and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 46 of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as 
applicable, with regard to corporate governance.
 
The details of TCS’ board structure and the various 
committees that constitute the governance structure1 of 
the organization are covered in detail in this report.
 
The various material aspects of corporate governance and TCS’ approach to them are discussed in the table below:
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Board effectiveness, 
independence and protection 
of minority shareholders’ 
interests
Board effectiveness is enhanced by setting a high bar in selecting the right mix of individuals to 
serve on the Board, with the right qualifications, expertise and experience, who can collectively 
serve the best interests of all stakeholders, maintain board and management accountability 
and drive corporate ethics, values and sustainability. Profiles of Board of Directors are available 
at https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance.
For greater diversity of opinions and perspectives within the Board, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee2 has fostered diversity in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise 
and:
Gender: Two (22.2 per cent) of the nine Directors are women.
Nationality: Three nationalities represented – Indian, American and Danish.
Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and Academia.
Corporate
Governance
Report
1 GRI 2-9
2 GRI 2-10

Corporate Governance Report | 114
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be found at 
https://on.tcs.com/appointment-BoD.
Board independence is ensured by having an independent majority, with 5 independent 
directors out of 9 i.e., 55.6 percent. None of the independent directors is related to each other, 
or to the non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors is 6 years.
Board effectiveness is further improved by ensuring that none of the directors holds 
directorships in more than seven listed entities, and none of the executive directors serves as 
an independent director on the Boards of more than three listed entities.
TCS’ governance philosophy around minority shareholders’ interests is guided by the TCoC 
which emphasizes fairness and transparency to all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse 
and independent Board ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
TCS strives to reduce information asymmetry through transparency, extensive disclosures 
and detailed commentary of the demand environment and the state of the business, and 
material developments. The Company provides a variety of channels including a structured 
global investor outreach program, through which minority shareholders can interact with the 
management or the Board.
Shareholders can communicate concerns and grievances to the Company Secretary’s office 
through a well-publicized channel, where complaints are tracked till closure. The Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.
Avoidance of conflict of 
interest3
Chairmanship4 of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate from that of the Chief 
Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO and MD).
TCoC5 for non-executive directors, and for independent directors, carries explicit clauses 
covering avoidance of conflict of interest. Likewise, it explicitly prohibits any 
employee – including the executive directors – from accepting any position of responsibility, 
with or without remuneration, with any other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. 
For the executive directors, such approval must be obtained from the Board.
Values, Ethics and compliance6
Over the last five decades, TCS has consistently demonstrated very principled conduct and 
has earned its reputation for trust and integrity while building a highly successful global 
business. The Company’s core values are: Leading Change, Integrity, Respect for the Individual, 
Excellence, and Learning and Sharing.
The TCoC serves as a moral guide and a governing framework for responsible corporate 
citizenship. It sets out guidelines on various topics including respect for human rights, 
prohibition of bribery and corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and 
avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Every employee of the Company is required to sign the TCoC at the time of joining. Web-based 
annual refresher courses are mandated to ensure continued awareness of the Code. Further, 
frequent communications from the leadership, reiterate the importance of the company values 
and the TCoC.
Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract discussions, and through 
inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and contracts.
Employees also undergo Web-based mandatory training every year on Anti-bribery and ethical 
behaviour. They can raise ethics concerns on Ultimatix – the intranet portal of the Company, 
which are investigated and tracked to closure by the HR department. Employees and other 
stakeholders can also report any non - compliance to the TCoC or to the laws of the land by 
senior executives directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee under the Whistle blower 
Policy without fear of retaliation. Information about these channels is communicated to 
employees as part of the mandatory training modules.
3 GRI 2-15
4 GRI 2-11
5 https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct
6 GRI 2-12

Corporate Governance Report | 115
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Compliance to laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as global legislation such as 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act, 2010, etc. are monitored through formal compliance 
procedures led by the Corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely 
monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across the business operations.
Governance, Risk and Compliance are overseen by the Chief Compliance Officer, 
Chief Risk Officer and the Chief HR Officer who report to the Chief Operating Officer and 
Executive Director (COO and ED), and CEO and MD respectively. At the apex level, the Audit 
Committee headed by an Independent Director oversees compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery 
and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gift and Hospitality Policy and also to the external regulations. 
Tax Strategy7

respective tax authorities, relevant information that is complete and accurate, in a timely manner.
TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or tax structuring for the purpose 
of gaining tax advantages. TCS’s tax policy is to optimize the tax cost, avail tax incentives where 
available, while achieving 100 per cent compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the 
tax laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates. Compliance is achieved through a 
robust compliance reporting and monitoring process, with a strong governance on minimizing 
the tax risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion, or the facilitation of tax evasion, by 
itself or by its employees or vendors.
TCS maintains open and collaborative relationships with governments and tax authorities 
worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance clearance from tax authorities on the 
proposed tax treatment of transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.
Board Oversight of 
Sustainability Matters8
TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the belief that it can expand its business by 
creating longer term value for all its stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers 
and local communities, while also valuing the environment. The various sustainability topics 
material to TCS are overseen by the relevant Board committees, as outlined below:
Material Sustainability Topics
Board Committee
Financial reporting, robustness of internal controls and risk 
management systems, auditor remuneration, compliance to 
policies around insider trading, whistle blower, ethics and TCoC.
Audit Committee
Risk management policy and plan, management of foreign 
exchange risks, cyber security risks, data privacy risks and 
intellectual property infringement risks.
Risk Management 
Committee
Recommend composition of Board and its committees, 
appointment/re-appointment of directors and KMP, design 
executive directors’ remuneration, recommend remuneration 
policy for directors, executive team and KMP, evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, Committees and Directors.
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Health and safety at the workplace, shareholder grievances and 
other sustainability initiatives.
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
Community initiatives and Corporate Social Responsibility, 
including compliances.
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Succession planning
TCS’ philosophy of empowering employees, its industry-leading talent retention, and an 
organization structure that devolves executive decision-making across the three business 
groups (viz., Relationship Incubation group, Enterprise Growth group and Business 
Transformation group) have resulted in a large and deep bench of leadership talent that 
enables robust succession planning and continuity and consistency in strategy. Succession 
planning for the top two leadership positions in each business unit is reviewed by senior 
management. Additionally, heads of business units carry out succession planning for key 
functions within their units.
Succession planning at senior management levels is reviewed by the Board. Business or unit 
heads are invited to present on specific topics at Board meetings from time to time, offering an 
opportunity to the directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.
7 GRI 207-1, GRI 207-2, GRI 207-3. TCS Tax Strategy link: https://on.tcs.com/TCS-Tax-Strategy
8 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14, TCFD Governance A & B

Corporate Governance Report | 116
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Building sustainable and 
responsible supply chain

protecting and safeguarding human rights, treating all persons with respect and dignity while 
safeguarding their rights, the abolition of forced and compulsory labor, child labor in the 
supply chain and strong corporate governance practices including anti-corruption and bribery 
and promoting fair business practices across the supply chain. TCoC also requires its suppliers 
to protect the environment and make conscious use of scarce natural resources in their 
business processes and at the same time highlighting the importance of health and safety in its 
workplace and expects the supplier to comply with sustainable business practices in letter and 
spirit in turn for its employees.
The Company supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. It works with its suppliers to ensure that they 
too are fully aligned with these principles.
II. 
Board of Directors
 
As on March 31, 2023, the Company has nine 
Directors. Of the nine Directors, seven (i.e. 77.8 
percent) are Non-Executive Directors out of which five 
(i.e. 55.6 percent) are Independent Directors including 
women directors.
 
 
The composition of the Board is in conformity with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with 
Sections 149 and 152 of the Act.
 
ii. 
None of the Directors on the Board:
 
 
holds directorships in more than ten public 
companies;
 
 
serves as Director or as independent directors in 
more than seven listed entities; and
 
 
who are the Executive Directors serve as 
independent directors in more than three listed 
entities.
 
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in 
other public companies as on March 31, 2023 have been 
made by the Directors. None of the Directors is related to 
each other except N G Subramaniam and 
N Chandrasekaran.
 
iii. 
Independent Directors are non-executive directors as 
defined under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act along with 
rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation 25(8) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties. Based on the declarations received from the 
Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has 
confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence 
as mentioned under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and that they are independent of the management. 
Further, the Independent Directors have included 
their names in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the Act read 
with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
 
iv. 
Six Board Meetings were held during the year under 
review and the gap between two meetings did not 
exceed one hundred and twenty days. The said 
meetings were held on: April 11, 2022; July 8, 2022; 
October 10, 2022; January 9, 2023 and 
March 13 and 14, 2023 and March 16, 2023. The 
necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
 
The names and categories of the directors on 
the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings 
held during the year under review and at the last 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other 
listed entities in which the Director is a director 
and the number of Directorships and Committee 
Chairmanships/Memberships held by them in other 
public limited companies as on March 31, 2023 are 
given herein below. Other directorships do not include 
directorships of private limited companies, foreign 
companies and companies registered under Section 8 
of the Act. Further, none of them is a member of more 
than ten committees or chairman of more than five 
committees across all the public limited companies 
in which he/she is a director. For the purpose of 
determination of limit of the Board Committees, 
chairpersonship and membership of the Audit 
Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI 
Listing Regulations.

Corporate Governance Report | 117
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the Director 
and DIN
Category
Number 
of Board 
Meetings 
attended 
during the 
FY 2023
Whether 
attended 
last AGM 
held on 
June 9, 

Number of 
Directorships in other 
Public Companies
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
Public Companies
Directorship in other listed entity 
(Category of Directorship)
Chairman
Member
Chairman
Member
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman) 
DIN 00121863
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. Tata Steel Limited @
2. Tata Motors Limited@
3. Tata Consumer Products 
Limited @
4. The Tata Power Company 
Limited @
5. The Indian Hotels Company 
Limited @
6. Tata Chemicals Limited @
Rajesh Gopinathan 
(Chief Executive Officer 
and Managing Director) 
DIN 06365813
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Yes
N G Subramaniam (Chief 
Operating Officer and 
Executive Director) 
DIN 07006215
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Yes

1. Tata Elxsi Limited @
2. Tata Communications 
Limited@
3. Tejas Networks Limited @
O P Bhatt 
DIN 00548091
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. Hindustan Unilever Limited #
2. Tata Steel Limited #
3. Tata Motors Limited #
4. Aadhar Housing Finance 
Limited (Debt Listed)#
Aarthi Subramanian 
DIN 07121802
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

Tata Capital Limited (Debt 
Listed)@
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla* 
DIN 03611983
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes
Hanne Sorensen 
DIN 08035439
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

Tata Motors Limited #
Keki Mistry 
DIN 00008886
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited $
2. Torrent Power Limited #
3. HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited^
4. HDFC Asset Management 
Company Limited@
5. HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited
Don Callahan 
DIN 08326836
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes
 
 
*Re-appointed as Independent Director for a second term w.e.f. January 11, 2023

Corporate Governance Report | 118
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Category of directorship held:
 
 
@Non-Independent, Non-Executive # Independent, Non-Executive $ Executive Director ^ Nominee, Non-Executive
 
 
Video-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate Directors travelling / residing abroad or at other locations to participate 
in the meetings.
 
vi. 
During FY 2023, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the 
Board for its consideration.
 
vii. During FY 2023, two meetings of the Independent Directors were held on April 8, 2022 and March 13, 2023. The 
Independent Directors, inter alia, reviewed the performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole and Chairman 
of the Company, taking into account the views of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
 
viii. The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company.
 
ix. 
Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on March 31, 2023 are given below:
Name
Category
Number of equity 
shares
N Chandrasekaran
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
1,77,056
Aarthi Subramanian
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
5,600
Rajesh Gopinathan
Non-Independent, Executive
2,760
N G Subramaniam
Non-Independent, Executive
1,97,760
Keki Mistry*
Independent, Non-Executive
4,150
 
 
*includes shares held jointly with his relative
 
 
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.
 
The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies fundamental for the effective functioning of the 
Company which are currently available with the Board:
Global Business
Understanding, of global business dynamics, across various geographical markets, 
industry verticals and regulatory jurisdictions.
Strategy and Planning
Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in guiding and 
leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
Governance
Experience in developing governance practices, serving the best interests of all 
stakeholders, maintaining board and management accountability, building long - term 
effective stakeholder engagements and driving corporate ethics and values.
 
 
The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a Director of the Company is dependent on whether the person possesses 
the requisite skill sets identified by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven leader in running a business 
that is relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business. 
Being an IT service provider, the Company’s business runs across different industry verticals, geographical markets and is 
global in nature. The Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to the 
industries/fields from where they come.

Corporate Governance Report | 119
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
III. Committees of the Board
 
There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2023, details of which are as follows
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Audit Committee Committee is constituted in line with the 
provisions of Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 177 of the Act. 
The terms of reference of the Committee, 
inter alia, includes:
Oversight of financial reporting process.
Reviewing with the management, the 
annual financial statements and auditors’ 
report thereon before submission to the 
Board for approval.
Evaluation of internal financial controls 
and risk management systems.
Recommendation for appointment, 
remuneration and terms of appointment 
of auditors of the Company.
Approve policies in relation to the 
implementation of the Insider Trading 
Code and to supervise implementation of 
the same.
To consider matters with respect to the 
TCoC, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
Policy and Gift and Hospitality Policy.
Name
Category
Four meetings of the 
Audit Committee 
were held during the 
year under review 
and the gap between 
two meetings did not 
exceed one hundred 
and twenty days.
Committee invites 
such of the executives 
as it considers 
appropriate, 
representatives of 
the statutory auditors 
and internal auditors, 
to be present at its 
meetings.
The Company 
Secretary acts as the 
Secretary to the Audit 
Committee.
Pradeep Manohar 
Gaitonde, Company 
Secretary is the 
Compliance Officer 
to ensure compliance 
and effective 
implementation of the 
Insider Trading Code.
Quarterly Reports 
are sent to the 
members of the Audit 
Committee on matters 
relating to the Insider 
Trading Code.
The previous AGM of 
the Company was held 
on June 9, 2022 and 
was attended by Keki 
Mistry, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
Keki Mistry 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
O P Bhatt
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Aarthi 
Subramanian
Non-Independent, 
Non- Executive
Dr Pradeep Kumar 
Khosla
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Hanne Sorensen
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Don Callahan
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Corporate Governance Report | 120
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(“NRC”)
Committee is constituted in line with the 
provisions of Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 178 of the Act.
The terms of reference, inter alia, includes:
Recommend to the Board the setup 
and composition of the Board and its 
Committees.
Recommend to the Board the 
appointment/ 
re-appointment of Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnel.
Support the Board and Independent 
Directors in evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees and 
individual Directors.
Recommend to the Board the 
Remuneration Policy for Directors, 
executive team or Key Managerial 
Personnel as well as the rest of employees.
Oversee familiarization programs for 
Directors.
Name
Category
Four NRC meetings 
were held during the 
year under review.
The Company 
does not have any 
Employee Stock 
Option Scheme.
Details of 
Performance 
Evaluation Criteria and 
Remuneration Policy 
are provided at serial 
no. III (iii) below.
The previous AGM 
of the Company was 
held on June 9, 2022 
and was attended by 
O P Bhatt, Chairman 
of the NRC.
O P Bhatt 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
N Chandrasekaran
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive
Hanne Sorensen
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”)
Committee is constituted in line with the 
provisions of Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 178 of the Act.
The terms of reference, inter alia, includes:
Consider and resolve the grievances of 
security holders.
Consider and approve issue of share 
certificates, transfer and transmission of 
securities, etc.
• Review activities with regard to the Health 
Safety and Sustainability initiatives of the 
Company.
Name
Category
Two meetings of the 
SRC were held during 
the year under review.
Details of Investor 
complaints and 
Compliance Officer 
are provided at serial 
no. III (ii) below.
The previous AGM 
of the Company was 
held on June 9, 2022 
and was attended by 
Dr Pradeep Kumar 
Khosla, Chairman of 
the SRC.
Dr Pradeep Kumar 
Khosla (Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, 
Executive
Keki Mistry
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
(“CSR”) 
Committee
Committee is constituted in line with the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Act. 
The terms of reference of the committee, inter 
alia, includes:
Formulate and recommend to the Board, 
a CSR Policy indicating the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as specified in 
Schedule VII to the Act.
Recommend the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on the activities mentioned in 
the CSR Policy.
Monitor the CSR Policy.
Name
Category
Four meetings of the 
CSR Committee were 
held during the year 
under review.
Four Board meetings 
of TCS Foundation, 
a Section 8 
company which was 
incorporated with sole 
objective of carrying 
on CSR activities of 
the Company were 
held during the year.
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman)
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive
O P Bhatt
Independent, 
Non-Executive
N G Subramaniam
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Corporate Governance Report | 121
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(“RMC”)
Committee is constituted in line with the 
provisions of Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
The terms of reference of the committee, 
inter alia, includes:
Formulate, monitor and review risk 
management policy and plan, inter alia, 
covering investment of surplus funds, 
management of foreign exchange risks, 
cyber security risks, data privacy risks and 
intellectual property infringements risks.
Approve addition/deletion of banks from 
time to time for carrying out Treasury 
transactions and delegate the said power 
to such person as may deem fit.
Name
Category
Three meetings of the 
RMC were held during 
the year under review.
Fortnightly reports 
on management of 
foreign exchange risks 
are made available to 
the members of the 
RMC.
Keki Mistry 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Don Callahan
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, 
Executive
N G Subramaniam
Non-Independent, 
Executive
Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial 
Officer
Executive 
Committee9
Detailed review of the following matters which 
form part of terms of Executive Committee, 
were presented to the Board:
Business and strategy review;
Long-term financial projections and cash 
flows;
Capital and revenue budgets and capital 
expenditure programmes;
Acquisitions, divestments and business 
restructuring proposals;
Senior management succession planning;
Any other item as may be decided by the 
Board.
Name
Category
The said matters were 
discussed in various Board 
meetings held during the 
year under review in the 
presence of the Executive 
Committee Members 
with the intent to avail 
expertise of all Board 
members.
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman)
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive
Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, 
Executive
The terms of reference of these committees are available on the website (https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance)
 
ii. 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee-other details
 
 
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer: 
 
 
 
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary 
 
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, 
 
 
 
Mumbai 400 021, India 
 
 
 
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
 
 
Details of investor complaints received and resolved during FY 2023 are as follows:
Opening as on 
April 1, 2022
Received during the year
Resolved during the year
Closing as on 
March 31, 2023

iii. Nomination and Remuneration Committee-other details
 
 
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent Directors
 
 
The performance evaluation criteria for independent directors is determined by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee. An indicative list of factors on which evaluation was carried out includes participation and contribution by a 
director, commitment, effective deployment of knowledge and expertise, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality and 
independence of behaviour and judgement.
9 GRI 2-13

Corporate Governance Report | 122
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Remuneration Policy10
 
 
Remuneration policy of the Company is designed to create a high-performance culture. It enables the Company to attract, 
retain and motivate employees to achieve results. Our business model promotes customer centricity and requires employee 
mobility to address project needs.
 
 
The remuneration policy supports such mobility through pay models that are compliant to local regulations. In each country 
where the Company operates, the remuneration structure is tailored to the regulations, practices and benchmarks prevalent 
in the IT industry.
 
 
The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances (fixed component) and commission 
(variable component) to its Managing Director and the Executive Directors. Annual increments are recommended by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the salary scale approved by the Board and Members and are effective 
April 1, each year.
 
 
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, decides the commission 
payable to the Managing Director and the Executive Directors out of the profits for the financial year and within the ceilings 
prescribed under the Act, based on the Board evaluation process considering the criteria such as the performance of the 
Company as well as that of the Managing Director and each Executive Director.
 
 
The Company pays sitting fees of `30,000 per meeting to its Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board 
and meetings of committees of the Board. The Company also pays commission to the Non-Executive Directors within the 
ceiling of 1 percent of the net profits of the Company as computed under the applicable provisions of the Act, with the 
approval of the Members. The said commission is decided each year by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors based on the Board 
evaluation process, considering criteria such as their attendance and contribution at the Board and Committee meetings, 
as well as the time spent on operational matters other than at meetings. The Company also reimburses the out-of-pocket 
expenses incurred by the Directors for attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy is available on 
 
 
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy. 
 
iv. 
Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2023
 
 
Non-Executive Directors
(` lakh)
Name
Commission
Sitting Fees
N Chandrasekaran, Chairman@
4.20
O P Bhatt
275.00
6.00
Aarthi Subramanian@@
3.00
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
250.00
3.30
Hanne Sorensen
250.00
4.80
Keki Mistry
275.00
5.10
Don Callahan
250.00
4.20
Total
1,300.00
30.60
 
 
 
As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company.
 
 
 
@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company.
10 GRI 2-19, TCFD Metrics and Targets A

Corporate Governance Report | 123
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Managing Director and Executive Director
(` lakh)
Name of Director
Salary
Benefits, 
Perquisites and 
Allowances
Commission
ESPS*
Rajesh Gopinathan 
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
173.00
243.00
2,500.00
N G Subramaniam
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director
161.30
248.90
1,950.00
 
 
 
*Employee Stock Purchase Scheme
 
 
 
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, 
as actuarial valuation and premium payments are done at the Company level.
 
 
 
Services of the Executive Directors may be terminated by either party, giving the other party six months’ notice or the 
Company paying six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no separate provision for payment of severance pay.
 
Number of committee meetings held and attendance records
Name of the Committee 
Audit 
Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
No. of meetings held 

Date of meetings 
April 11, 2022;
July 8, 2022;
October 10, 
2022 and
January 9, 2023
April 11, 2022;
October 11, 2022; 
March 13, 2023 
and 
March 16, 2023
September 6, 
2022 and
January 11, 

April 14, 2022;
July 18, 2022;
October 11, 2022 
and 
February 13, 2023@
July 5, 2022;
October 12, 
2022; and
January 11, 

No. of meetings attended
Name of Member
N Chandrasekaran

Rajesh Gopinathan

O P Bhatt

N G Subramaniam

Aarthi Subramanian

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

Hanne Sorensen

Keki Mistry

Don Callahan


Samir Seksaria

Whether quorum was 
present for all the meetings
The necessary quorum was present for all the above committee meetings
 
 
@ TCS Foundation, a Section 8 company incorporated in 2015 with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities of the 
Company, has held four meetings during the FY 2023 
IV. General Body Meetings
 
General Meeting
 
 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):
Financial Year
Date
Time
Venue

June 11, 2020
3.30 p.m.
Meeting conducted through VC / OAVM 
pursuant to the MCA Circular

June 10, 2021

June 9, 2022

Corporate Governance Report | 124
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Extraordinary General Meeting:
 
 
 
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2023.
 
 
Special resolution:
 
 
 
Special resolution for change of place of keeping and inspection of the registers and Annual Returns of the Company 
was passed at the AGM held in 2022 and no special resolution was passed in the previous AGMs held in 2021 and 2020.
 
ii. 
Details of special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted the postal ballot exercise, details of 
the voting pattern and procedure of postal ballot:
 
 
The Company had sought the approval of the shareholders by way of a Special Resolution through notice of postal ballot 
dated January 9, 2023 for appointment of Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla (DIN 03611983) as a director and re-appointment 
as an independent director for a second consecutive term of five years which was duly passed and the results of which 
were announced on February 13, 2023. P N Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327) of Parikh & Associates, Practising Company 
Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot process by voting through electronic means only 
(remote e-voting) in a fair and transparent manner. Details of the voting pattern are provided below:
Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
Invalid votes
Number of 
members 
voted
Number of 
valid Votes cast 
(Shares)
Percentage 
of total 
number of 
valid votes 
cast
Number of 
members 
voted
Number of 
valid votes 
cast (Shares)
Percentage 
of total 
number of 
valid votes 
cast
Total number of 
members whose 
votes were 
declared invalid
Total number 
of invalid 
votes cast 
(Shares)
10,887
3,34,46,40,571
99.05

3,21,56,152
0.95
 
 
Procedure for postal ballot: The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act, read with the Rules framed thereunder and read with the General Circular nos. 14/2020, 
17/2020, 22/2020, 33/2020, 39/2020, 10/2021, 20/2021, 3/2022, 11/2022 dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, June 15, 
2020, September 28, 2020, December 31, 2020, June 23, 2021, December 8, 2021, May 5, 2022, December 28, 2022 
respectively issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
 
iii. 
Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
 
 
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through 
postal ballot.
A certificate has been received from Parikh & Associates, Practising Company Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
VI. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022) has been appointed as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory Auditors’ fees, on consolidated basis for FY 2023 is given below:
(` lakh)
Particulars
Amount
Services as statutory auditors (including quarterly audits)
1,120.40
Tax audit
70.00
Services for tax matters
24.10
Other matters
402.01
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
86.20
Total
1,702.71

Corporate Governance Report | 125
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
VII. Other Disclosures
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for details/
policy
Related party transactions 
(“RPT”)
Regulation 23 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations 
and as defined under 
the Act
During the year all RPTs entered by the 
Company were in the ordinary course of 
business and in respect of transactions 
with related parties under Section 2(76) 
of the Act, are at arm’s length basis and 
were approved by the members of Audit 
Committee including Independent Directors. 
The Company had sought the approval 
of shareholders at the 27th AGM held 
on June 9, 2022 for material RPT as per 
Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Similarly the Company intends seeking 
approval of its shareholders for the existing 
and material related party transactions 
for FY 2023 at its ensuing annual general 
meeting to be held on June 29,2023.
The Board’s approved policy for related 
party transactions is uploaded on the 
website of the Company.
https://on.tcs.com/RPT
Details of non-compliance 
by the Company, penalty, 
strictures imposed on the 
Company by the stock 
exchange, or Securities and 
Exchange Board of India or 
any statutory authority on 
any matter related to capital 
markets during the last three 
financial years
Schedule V (C) 10(b) 
to the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
NIL
Whistle Blower Policy and 
Vigil Mechanism
Regulation 22 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations
The Company has this Policy and has 
established the necessary vigil mechanism 
for directors and employees to report 
concerns about unethical behaviour. No 
person has been denied access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. The said 
policy has been uploaded on the website of 
the Company.
https://on.tcs.com/
WhistleBP
Discretionary requirements
Schedule II Part E 
of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The auditors’ report on financial statements 
of the Company are unmodified.
Internal auditors of the Company make 
quarterly presentations to the Audit 
Committee on their reports.

Corporate Governance Report | 126
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for details/
policy
Subsidiary Companies
Regulation 24 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The Audit Committee reviews the 
consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and the investments made by its 
unlisted subsidiary companies.
The minutes of the Board meetings along 
with a report on significant developments 
of the unlisted subsidiary companies are 
periodically placed before the Board of 
Directors of the Company.
The Company does not have any material 
unlisted subsidiary company.
The Company has a policy for determining 
‘material subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on 
its website.
https://on.tcs.com/
Subsidiary
Policy on Determination of 
Materiality for Disclosures
Regulation 30 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
Policy on Determination of Materiality for 
Disclosures
https://on.tcs.com/
Material
Policy on Archival and 
Preservation of Documents
Regulations 30 and 
9 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The Company has adopted this policy.
https://on.tcs.com/
Archival
Reconciliation of Share Capital 
Audit Report
Regulation 76 of the 
SEBI (Depositories 
and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018 
and SEBI Circular 
No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir16/2002
A practising Company Secretary carried 
out a share capital audit to reconcile the 
total admitted equity share capital with 
the National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and the Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) and the 
total issued and listed equity share capital. 
The audit report confirms that the total 
issued/paid-up capital is in agreement with 
the total number of shares in physical form 
and the total number of dematerialized 
shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
https://www.tcs.com/ircorporate-governance
Code of Conduct
Regulation 17 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The members of the Board and Senior 
Management Personnel have affirmed 
compliance with the Code of Conduct 
applicable to them during the year ended 
March 31, 2023. A certificate by the CEO 
and MD, on the compliance declarations 
received from the members of the Board 
and Senior Management forms part of this 
report.
https://www.tcs.com/
tata-code-of-conduct
Dividend Distribution Policy
Regulation 43A 
of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
A regular annual dividend generally consists 
of three interim dividends after each of the 
first three quarters of the fiscal year, topped 
up with a final dividend after the fourth 
quarter.
In addition, every second or third year, the 
accumulated surplus cash has been returned 
to shareholders through a special dividend.
https://on.tcs.com/
Dividend

Corporate Governance Report | 127
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for details/
policy
Terms of Appointment of 
Independent Directors
Regulation 46 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations 
and Section 149 read 
with Schedule IV to 
the Act
Terms and conditions of appointment/reappointment of Independent Directors are 
available on the Company’s website.
https://on.tcs.com/
ApptID
Familiarization Program
Regulation 25(7) and 
46 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations
Details of familiarization program imparted 
to Independent Directors are available on 
the Company’s website.
https://on.tcs.com/
familiarizationprogramme
Disclosure under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2018
Section 134 of the 
Act, read with Rule 
8 of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 

The details have been disclosed in the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report forming part of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
VIII. Means of Communication
 
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include, 
The Indian Express, Financial Express, Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. 
The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com. 
 
Statutory notices are published in The Free Press Journal, Business Standard and Navshakti. The Company also issues press 
releases from time to time. Financial Results, Statutory Notices, Press Releases and Presentations made to the institutional 
investors/analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are submitted to the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) as well as uploaded on the Company’s website. Frequently Asked Questions 
(FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/investorrelations. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.
IX. General shareholder information
 
Annual General Meeting for FY 2023
Date
June 29, 2023
Time
3.30 p.m. (IST)
Venue
Meeting is being conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to the MCA General Circulars dated May 5, 2020 read 
with general circulars dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, January 13, 2021, December 8, 2021, December 14, 2021, 
May 5, 2022 and December 28, 2022. For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM.
 
 
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, 
particulars of Directors seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice of this AGM.
 
ii. 
Financial Calendar
 
 
Year ending 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 31
 
 
AGM in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June
 
iii. Dividend Payment 
 
 
 
 
The final dividend, if approved, shall be paid/credited on Monday, 
July 3, 2023 
 
iv. 
Date of Book Closure/ Record Date 
 
As mentioned in the Notice of this AGM
 
Listing on Stock Exchanges 
 
 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai 400 051
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSE Limited
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001

Corporate Governance Report | 128
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
vi. Stock Codes/Symbol
 
 
NSE 
: TCS 
 
 
BSE 
: 532540
 
 
Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
 
vii. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) 
: L22210MH1995PLC084781 
of the Company
 
viii. 
Market Price Data
 
 
High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in FY 2023 on NSE and BSE:
Month
NSE
BSE
High (`)
Low (`)
Total number of 
equity shares traded
High (`)
Low (`)
Total number of equity 
shares traded
Apr-2022
3,814.80
3,471.90
4,32,95,317
3,814.05
3,474.30
25,10,240
May-2022
3,542.40
3,167.65
5,11,24,294
3,542.05
3,166.60
36,60,216
Jun-2022
3,440.15
3,088.90
5,06,89,330
3,438.80
3,089.25
24,67,335
Jul-2022
3,315.10
2,994.60
5,98,47,596
3,316.15
2,993.55
38,61,555
Aug-2022
3,422.50
3,132.55
3,43,42,786
3,422.45
3,133.70
30,20,461
Sep-2022
3,242.95
2,982.05
5,39,36,799
3,241.30
2,982.80
45,03,708
Oct-2022
3,193.15
2,984.95
3,65,59,310
3,193.05
2,985.70
44,09,532
Nov-2022
3,397.35
3,205.65
3,55,04,157
3,397.40
3,206.00
38,39,303
Dec-2022
3,475.65
3,202.05
3,23,69,777
3,475.10
3,201.60
16,43,242
Jan-2023
3,436.30
3,211.55
3,99,21,886
3,435.85
3,212.00
16,15,077
Feb-2023
3,558.05
3,312.85
3,13,42,992
3,553.95
3,314.15
11,07,802
Mar-2023
3,390.40
3,106.10
39,995,219
3,389.70
3,105.90
14,00,734
 
ix. 
Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the BSE Sensex

Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
TCS Share price and BSE Sensex Movement
 
TCS Share Price
BSE Sensex
 
 
Base 100 = Friday, April 1, 2022
 
Registrar and Transfer Agents
 
 
Name and Address 
: TSR Consultants Private Limited (TCPL)
 
 
 
 
 C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, 
 
 
 
 
 Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, 
 
 
 
 
 Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083 
 
 
 
 
 Telephone: +918108118484 
 
 
 
 
 Fax: +91226656 8494
 
 
 
 
 E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 Website: https://www.tcplindia.co.in

Corporate Governance Report | 129
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
xi. 
Places for acceptance of documents
 
 
Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
 
 
For the convenience of the shareholders, documents will also be accepted at the following branches of TCPL:
Place
Name and Address
Phone/Email
Mumbai
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
Building 17/19, Office no. 415 
Rex Chambers, Ballard Estate, Walchand Hirachand Marg, 
Fort, Mumbai-400 001
Tel: +91 7304874606 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Bengaluru
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
C/o.Mr. D. Nagendra Rao 
“Vaghdevi” 543/A, 7th Main 3rd Cross, Hanumanthnagar 
Bengaluru-560 019
Tel: +91 80 26509004 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Kolkata
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
C/o. Link Intime Private Limited 
Vaishno Chamber, Flat No. 502 & 503 5th Floor, 6, 
Brabourne Road, Kolkatta- 700001
Tel: +91 33 40081986 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
New Delhi
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
C/o. Link Intime India Private Limited 
Noble Heights, 1st Floor Plot No NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC 
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi – 110 058
Tel: +91 11 49411030 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Jamshedpur
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
Qtr. No. L-4/5, Main Road, Bistupur 
(Beside Chappan-Bhog Sweet Shop) 
Jamshedpur-831 001
Tel: +91 657 2426937 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Ahmedabad
TSR Consultants Private Limited 
C/o. Link Intime India Private Limited 
Amarnath Business Centre-1 (ABC-1) 
Beside Gala Business Centre, Nr. St. Xavier’s College Corner 
Off. C.G. Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad-380006
Tel: +91 79 26465179 
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
xii. Share Transfer System
 
 
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, transfer, transmission and 
transposition of securities shall be effected only in dematerialized form.
 
 
Pursuant to SEBI Circular dated January 25, 2022, the listed companies shall issue the securities in dematerialized form only, 
for processing any service requests from shareholders viz., issue of duplicate share certificates, endorsement, transmission, 
transposition, etc. After processing the service request, a letter of confirmation will be issued to the shareholders and 
shall be valid for a period of 120 days, within which the shareholder shall make a request to the Depository Participant for 
dematerializing those shares. If the shareholders fail to submit the dematerialisation request within 120 days, then the 
Company shall credit those shares in the Suspense Escrow Demat account held by the Company. Shareholders can claim 
these shares transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat account on submission of necessary documentation.
 
 
The Directors and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are authorized by the 
Board severally to approve transfers, which are noted at subsequent Board Meetings.
 
xiii. Shareholding as on March 31, 2023
 
 
Distribution of equity shareholding
Number of shares
Holding
Percentage to 
capital
Number of 
accounts
Percentage to total 
accounts
1-100
4,94,62,770
1.35
23,14,765
88.31
101-500
5,21,27,240
1.42
2,58,714
9.88
501-1000
1,87,54,401
0.51
26,324
1.00
1001-5000
3,30,46,498
0.90
17,176
0.66
5001-10000
1,08,58,233
0.30
1,539
0.06
10001-20000
1,07,71,057
0.29

0.03

Corporate Governance Report | 130
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Number of shares
Holding
Percentage to 
capital
Number of 
accounts
Percentage to total 
accounts
20001-30000
84,82,523
0.23

0.01
30001-40000
61,77,198
0.17

0.01
40001- 50000
54,50,619
0.15

0.00
50001 -100000
2,67,46,395
0.74

0.01
100001-above
3,43,71,74,439
93.94

0.03
TOTAL
3,65,90,51,373
100.00
26,21,099
100.00
 
 
Categories of equity shareholding
Category
Number of equity shares held
Percentage of holding
Promoter
2,64,43,17,117
72.27
Other Entities of the Promoter Group
10,68,956
0.03
Mutual Funds
12,70,84,071
3.47
Banks, Financial Institutions, State and Central 
Government
1,96,96,625
0.53
Insurance Companies
20,36,77,391
5.57
Foreign Institutional Investors
46,53,36,259
12.72
NRIs, OBCs, Foreign Nationals
77,22,080
0.21
Corporate Bodies, Trusts
1,10,67,582
0.29
Indian Public and Others
17,63,09,365
4.83
Alternate Investment Fund
21,70,419
0.06
IEPF account
6,01,508
0.02
TOTAL
3,65,90,51,373
100.00
 
 
Top ten equity shareholders of the Company
Sr. 
No.
Name of the shareholders*
Number of equity shares held
Percentage of 
holding

Tata Sons Private Limited
2,64,43,17,117
72.27

Life Insurance Corporation of India
16,34,27,223
4.47

SBI Mutual Fund
3,65,24,190
1.00

Invesco Developing Markets Fund
3,10,72,921
0.85

Axis Mutual Fund
1,96,65,244
0.54

Government of Singapore 
1,64,30,083
0.45

NPS Trust
1,58,20,315
0.43

Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, 
A Series of Vanguard International Equity Index Funds 
1,41,75,888
0.39

Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund
1,34,57,122
0.37

UTI Mutual Fund
1,26,67,041
0.35
 
 
 
*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the shareholder
 
xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
 
 
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the Company 
representing 99.98 percent of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialized as on March 31, 2023. 
Under the Depository System, the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is 
INE467B01029.
 
xv. Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
 
 
The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and hence, as on 
March 31, 2023, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments.

Corporate Governance Report | 131
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
xvi. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
 
 
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018 is 
not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please refer to Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report.
 
xvii. Loans and advances 
 
 
The Company has not given any loans and advances to firms/company in which directors are interested.
 
xviii. Equity shares in the suspense account
 
 
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of 
equity shares in the suspense account are as follows:
Particulars
Number of
shareholders
Number of
equity shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on April 1, 2022

1,640
Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares 
from suspense account during the year
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense 
account during the year
Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority as per Section 124 of the Act

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on March 31, 2023

The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2023 shall remain frozen till the rightful 
owner of such shares claims the shares.
 
xix. Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
 
 
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period of seven years from the date of 
transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF.
 
 
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has remained unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date 
of transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority. The said requirement does not apply to shares 
in respect of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of the shares.
 
 
In the interest of the shareholders, the Company sends periodical reminders to the shareholders to claim their dividends 
in order to avoid transfer of dividends/shares to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard are also published in the newspapers 
and the details of unclaimed dividends and shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, are 
uploaded on the Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/unclaimed-dividend.
 
 
In light of the aforesaid provisions, the Company has during the year, transferred to IEPF the unclaimed dividends, 
outstanding for seven years, of the Company, erstwhile CMC Limited (since amalgamated with the Company). Further, shares 
of the Company, in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date of 
transfer to unpaid dividend account, have also been transferred to the demat account of IEPF Authority.
 
 
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during FY 2023 are as follows:
Financial year
Amount of unclaimed dividend transferred 
(` lakh)
Number of shares transferred
2014-15
214.43*
2,589
2015-16
168.93*
47,643
TOTAL
383.36
50,232
 
 
*Includes dividend and fractional shares entitlement arising out of amalgamation of erstwhile CMC Limited
 
 
The Members who have a claim on above dividends and/or shares are requested to follow the below process:
 
 
Submit self-attested copies of documents provided in IEPF 5 helpkit, which is available on IEPF website 
(www.iepf.gov.in) to the Company/ Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA).

Corporate Governance Report | 132
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
After verification of the aforesaid documents submitted, Company will issue an entitlement letter.
 
 
File Form IEPF-5 on IEPF website and send self-attested copies of IEPF-5 form along with the acknowledgement (SRN), 
Indemnity bond and entitlement letter to RTA.
 
 
On receipt of the physical documents mentioned above, Company will submit e-Verification report, for further 
processing by the IEPF Authority.
 
 
Members are requested to note that no claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/shares transferred to 
IEPF.
 
 
The following table give information relating to various outstanding dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by 
the shareholders from the Company’s RTA:
Financial Year
Date of declaration
Last date for claiming unpaid dividend
2015-16
June 17, 2016
July 17, 2023
2016-17
July 14, 2016
August 15, 2023
October 13, 2016
November 16, 2023
January 12, 2017
February 12, 2024
June 16, 2017
July 16, 2024
2017-18
July 13, 2017
August 13, 2024
October 12, 2017
November 12, 2024
January 11, 2018
February 10, 2025
June 15, 2018
July 15, 2025
2018-19
July 10, 2018
August 9, 2025
October 11, 2018
November 10, 2025
January 10, 2019
February 9, 2026
June 13, 2019
July 13, 2026
2019-20
July 9, 2019
August 8, 2026
October 10, 2019
November 9, 2026
January 17, 2020
February 16, 2027
March 10, 2020
April 9, 2027
June 11, 2020
July 11, 2027
2020-21
July 9, 2020
August 8, 2027
October 7, 2020
November 6, 2027
January 8, 2021
February 7, 2028
June 10, 2021
July 10, 2028
2021-22
July 8, 2021
August 7, 2028
October 8, 2021
November 7, 2028
January 12, 2022 
February 11, 2029
June 9, 2022
July 9, 2029
2022-23
July 8, 2022
August 7, 2029
October 10, 2022
November 9, 2029
January 9, 2023
February 8, 2030
 
xx. Plant locations
 
 
In view of the nature of the Company’s business viz. Information Technology (IT) Services and IT Enabled Services, the 
Company operates from various offices in India and abroad. The Company has a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim 
Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.
 
xxi. Address for correspondence
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
 
 
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India
 
 
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
 
 
Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investor.relations@tcs.com
 
 
For queries on IEPF related matters: iepf.assist@tcs.com
 
 
Website: www.tcs.com 

Corporate Governance Report | 133
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF 
CONDUCT
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees, including the Managing Director and Executive 
Directors. 
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. These Codes are 
available on the Company’s website.
I confirm that the Company has, in respect of the year ended March 31, 2023, received from the Senior Management Team of the 
Company and the Members of the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
For the purpose of this declaration, Senior Management Team means the Chief Financial Officer, Global Head-HR, Global Business Unit 
Heads, Global Head-Legal and the Company Secretary as on March 31, 2023.
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director
DIN: 06365813
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Corporate Governance Report | 134
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of 
Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
(‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2023, as 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub- regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D and E of 
Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance 
is the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the review of procedures and implementation 
thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance 
with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit 
nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, and the representations made 
by the Directors and the Management and considering the 
relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India warranted due to the 
spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that the Company 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as 
stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on 
March 31, 2023.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh 
FCS: 327 CP: 1228 
UDIN: F000327E000066987
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai,
Date: 12.04.2023

Corporate Governance Report | 135
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Tata Consultancy 
Services Limited having CIN L22210MH1995PLC084781 and having registered office at 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this 
Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 
March 31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment in Company *
N Chandrasekaran
00121863
September 6, 2007
Rajesh Gopinathan
06365813
February 21, 2017
N G Subramaniam
07006215
February 21, 2017
O P Bhatt
00548091
April 2, 2012
Aarthi Subramanian
07121802
March 12, 2015
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Khosla
03611983
January 11, 2018
Hanne Sorensen
08035439
December 18, 2018
Keki Mistry
00008886
December 18, 2018
Don Callahan
08326836
January 10, 2019
*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner 
FCS No. 327 CP No. 1228 
UDIN: F000327E000067053
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai Date: 12.04.2023

Corporate Social Responsibility | 136
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Overview
In keeping with the Tata Group’s purpose-driven worldview, 
TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities to build 
self-reliance through technology while promoting the values of 
fairness, equity and respect for human rights. Its mission is to 
connect people to opportunities in the digital economy while 
building equitable, inclusive pathways for all – especially women, 
youth, and marginalized groups.
TCS invests in addressing the most pressing needs of the 
community through various CSR initiatives and programs focused 
on education, skilling, employment, and entrepreneurship, aligned 
with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). With a 
focus on bridging gaps in access to opportunities, TCS also invests 
in social innovation and community projects targeted the poorest 
sections of society, and supports programs addressing basic 
health and wellness, water sanitation and hygiene, conservation, 
and disaster relief eﬀorts across the globe.
TCS leverages its intellectual capability, technological expertise, 
ﬁnancial capacity and the skills of its employees to support 
wide-reaching, high-impact programs for social impact. These 
comprehensive programs are designed to be holistic and 
adaptable for community empowerment and lasting societal 
development. 
Over 150,000 TCSers served their local communities by 
volunteering 2.8 million hours in FY 2023, impacting the lives of 
over 1.25 million people. 

Corporate Social Responsibility | 137
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Overall, TCS empowered 4.5 million people across the world 
during the year, creating equitable and inclusive pathways for 
1.1 million women, 581,000 youth and 1.3 million marginalized 
people through its strategic CSR programs. 
Key highlights:
Closed the literacy gap for 1.13 million Indians, including 
a pioneering public-private partnership reaching all 52 
districts of Madhya Pradesh with the State Literacy Mission 
Authority. 
GoIT continues to empower the next generation of 
innovators in school; 41,971 students across 28 countries 
are now digital innovators, solving real-world problems.
Ignite my Future helped 293,697 students across India, US, 
Canada and ANZ learn computational thinking. 
Nearly half the goIT and IMF beneficiaries are girls and over 
70% from minorities and underserved groups. 
Youth Employment Program (YEP) empowered 10,869 
rural youth, creating new pathways to 21st century jobs, 
and now reaches students across every state and union 
territory in India. 
BridgeIT program is helping marginalized youth turn into 
digital entrepreneurs and earn well, providing essential lastmile services for 1,736 villages in rural India.
Supported NGOs across the world through pro-bono 
projects. Also supported institutions such as, Tata Memorial 
Center and Cancer Institute in India. 
Engaged 433 customers through the Business with Purpose 
program, creating 186 purpose partnerships to jointly serve 
communities in need around the world.
Engaged 2,368 cross-sector leaders through 13 Digital 
Empowers thought leadership forums, using their collective 
wisdom to help advance advocacy and policy efforts 
globally. 
Supported 77,303 refugees and families and contributed 
€1.28 million through humanitarian response to the 
Ukraine war.
Literacy as a Service
Adult non-literacy continues to be a problem holding back India 
from reaching its full economic potential. Women account for 
65% of the illiterate population, and the rest is from marginalized 
communities. To address the causes of non-literacy, TCS devised 
the Literacy as a Service Program (LaaS) which augments the 
Government of India’s eﬀorts to improve literacy. LaaS provides 
an innovative teaching method by combining the power of IT 
with the theory of cognition and laws of perception. LaaS adopts 
creative means of delivery to enable functional literacy, such as 
animated graphic patterns for easy visual and auditory learning.
Modules on the platform include functional literacy (8-10 
hours), digital literacy (5-7 hours), and awareness on key citizen 
entitlements (3-4 hours), available in 12 languages – nine Indian, 
and three foreign.
Thus far, LaaS has successfully paved the way to self-reliance 
for over 1.13 million learners (~60% women) and more than 
200,000 Preraks through literacy.
In August 2022, TCS launched the ‘Each one Empowers one’ 
portal which allows employees of TCS and Tata Group, along 
with their families, to empower non-literates in their local 
community, such as security guards, domestic workers and 
gardeners.
The program has generated transforming impact by promoting 
social inclusion, ﬁnancial stability and economic growth. It has also 
propelled neo-literates to receive better access to government 
beneﬁt programs, ﬁnancial systems and empowered them to have 
a more signiﬁcant say in family and community decision-making.
LaaS Case Study
Pyari Ben resides in the Bijori hamlet 
of Puwasa village, in Madhya Pradesh’s 
Alirajpur district, one of the least literate 
and poorest districts in the country. Due 
to limited local employment prospects, 
villagers from Alirajpur travel for work 
to nearby Gujarat cities; Pyari is not an 
exception in this regard. She never had the opportunity to 
attend school, so she never achieved literacy. This became 
diﬃcult because she couldn’t keep track of her hard-earned 
daily income as a construction worker. 
She gained basic literacy skills after joining the Literacy as 
a Service (LaaS) program, which made her realize that her 
contractor used to defraud her by not paying her the proper 
wages. LaaS gave her the awareness she needed to ﬁght for 
her rights and ultimately get her dues. She can now calculate 
her working hours and daily pay, create a budget, and save 
money.
She created a bank account and enrolled in Ayushman Bharat, 
a health insurance scheme, to obtain medical beneﬁts for 
herself and her family. As a migrant who travels from her 
village to distant work locations, she can now read and 
recognize train numbers to board the correct train. Pyari 
inspired other women in the village and encouraged them to 
participate in this program.
Ignite My Future (IMF)
Ignite My Future is a teacher professional development program 
which introduces the concept of computational thinking into all 
core subjects. This is a transdisciplinary education program that 
transforms the way students learn. 
IMF has generated a great impact through professional 
development oﬀerings, special projects as well as volunteer 
and customer engagements with the partnered schools. IMF’s 
Learning Leaders community supports the growing global 
community of partnered educators, committed to learnings 
about the power of computational thinking. This year, IMF 
India launched Learning Leaders’ regional chapters, catering to 
regional learning requirements of the teachers from the partner 
districts across India.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 138
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
goIT prepares students with engaging design workshops and 
custom mentorship to pursue the careers of tomorrow of 
which involve STEM and computer sciences. It uses a fourpronged model of (1) volunteer-driven engagements, inperson or virtually, (2) seamless year-round connects via goIT 
Online, (3) SDG-focused monthly challenges and (4) Work 
experience designed to introduce students to local experts 
and opportunities. Each prong is layered with school district 
partnerships and mentoring by industry professionals from 
TCS which helps students develop core skills and makes goIT a 
unique program.
After over a decade of success and a footprint across 42 
countries, goIT has beneﬁted over 144,000 students who have 
designed more than 29,000 tech-for-good digital innovation 
prototypes.
Over 41,000 students and educators have beneﬁted from this 
program in FY 2023 globally.
goIT Case Study
Speaking about her experience at the ﬁrst inaugural TCS goIT 
program in Saudi Arabia, Leah, a Grade 7 student, said, “I am 
super happy to have had the opportunity to get involved in the 
design thinking program. The mobile app training is cool, and 
I am proud of my project on improving world health by using 
technology.”
The event was celebrated with more than 100 learners from 
the Al Sahafa International School, Riyadh. Under the theme 
of UN SDG, students ideated solutions for good health and 
wellbeing, aﬀordable and clean energy, and zero hunger. 
Grade 7 students prototyped a mobile solution called ‘Team 
Earth’ which displays the location of the nearest renewable 
energy outlets and ﬁnds an environmental, social, and 
governance volunteer. Meanwhile, Grade 5 students pitched a 
technology solution to solve world hunger by creating an app 
called ‘Free Supermarket’ which would help people make and 
receive donations.
Excited to see the STEM exposure students received through 
the TCS goIT program, the Academic Coordinator of Al Sahafa 
International School, Ola Mourad said, “Programs like this 
are extremely important in showing students how they can 
succeed in a range of ﬁelds, with a good grounding in IT.”
BridgeIT
BridgeIT is a unique initiative created to bridge the digital 
divide that places socially and economically underprivileged 
communities at a disadvantage. The program creates digital 
entrepreneurs who use IT to help local citizens avail essential 
digital services in education, adult literacy, unemployment 
and social discrimination. It attempts to address prevailing 
social inequities in India by proactively reaching out to women, 
Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) communities.
Launched in 2014, BridgeIT has a footprint across 30 districts in 
10 states. The program oﬀers budding entrepreneurs the skills, 
mentoring, technology, tools and resources required to set up a 
Digital Service Centre from where they can provide services such 
One of the IMF’s pioneering STEM initiative interventions, Global 
Innovations Project (GIP) aims to connect students and teachers 
from around the world as they explore and solve real-world 
problems using computational thinking. 
This year, IMF India has launched its Season 1 of GIP, where 
students were asked to explore accessible and adaptive tools, 
identify and problem-solve community level issues that are 
limiting the accessibility and inclusivity of all the learners. 
Teachers and students from schools like School of Scholars 
(Maharashtra), BGS Schools (Karnataka), Podar International 
School (Maharashtra), Rajya Ashram Paddhati Vidyalaya (Samaj 
Kalyan Department, Uttar Pradesh), APSWREIS (Andhra Pradesh) 
in India have collaborated with schools from North America in 
this experiential journey.
Overall, the participants from India worked on 109 innovation 
projects, clocking over 560 collaborative learning hours and 268 
videos over Microsoft Flip tool. Teachers were very appreciative 
of the opportunity to learn and collaborate with educators 
around the world.
In FY 2023, IMF benefited more than 293,000 students and 
educators across North America, India, UK and Ireland, APAC and 
ANZ.
IMF Case Study
This year, Ignite My Future made its impact through 
professional development, volunteer and customer 
engagement and special projects. One such collaboration was 
with the Meghe Group of Schools to encourage students for an 
interest in STEM and computational thinking.
“The purpose of education is best served when students 
are doing something that would not only improve their 
competencies but also create positive social impact. Global 
innovation project is one such opportunity I believe, because 
students are not only reﬂecting upon what they have learnt but 
are also getting step closer towards sustainable development 
goals. I am glad and proud of all the eﬀorts that students and 
teachers have put in, also that they have consciously chosen 
to be a part of this project in identifying how can they improve 
accessibility not only around them but also pick up global 
perspectives around it. I am sure that the seeds of eﬀorts that 
we are putting in most our students today, will give us citizens 
of tomorrow who would have SDGs as inherent part of their 
lives. Thankyou TCS!” - Director, Meghe Group of Schools
goIT
TCS’ ﬂagship program goIT (go Innovate Together) is a Digital 
Innovation program which prepares students with culturally 
relevant and context-appropriate learning experiences, coupled 
with modern technologies.
Across the world, the gap between employers’ needs and 
available skills is growing. The National Science Foundation 
predicts that 80% of the jobs that will be created in the next 
decade will require a form of mathematics and science skilling. 
Insuﬃcient numbers of students pursuing these streams, and 
lack of focus on innovation, problem-solving and creativity in 
school curricula, are the big challenges in fulfilling those future 
jobs.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 139
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
as generating and updating documents (such as Aadhar cards, 
Pan cards, and voters ID), enrolling for different government 
schemes, filling in online forms and cash withdrawals/deposits 
from the bank to fellow villagers.
In FY 2023, the program had 347 active digital entrepreneurs 
providing several of these services in 1,735 villages. 146 of these 
entrepreneurs were women.
BridgeIT Case Study
Priyanka Kumari, a native of Dihi village, Latehar District, 
Jharkhand, had never dreamt that one day she would be an 
entrepreneur and earn an income of more than `40,000/-per 
month. Priyanka always had a desire to have her own identity. 
When she got married, she was still doing her graduation. 
She continued her studies after marriage and completed her 
graduation in 2016. In 2020, when she heard of BridgeIT she 
grabbed the opportunity to be part of the program. 
Gradually, she became a successful digital entrepreneur and is 
now providing several services such as photocopying, printing, 
taking and printing passport size photos, paying land taxes, 
booking railway tickets, Aadhaar, PAN Card and Ration card 
services, etc. Today, Priyanka not only runs a shop near her 
residence, she also has taken up the responsibility of another 
shop at the Panchayat Bhawan of her village, employing two 
other people from the village.
BridgeIT has inspired her to dream big and is successfully 
supporting Priyanka in achieving her plans for future. She says, 
“My dream is to expand my business further and I want to keep 
the latest models of mobile phones and other accessories for 
sale in my shop. Moreover, I also want to open a tent house 
employing more needy people in the business. Besides, I am 
planning to buy a new scooty.”
Youth Employment Program (YEP)
YEP tackles one of the biggest challenges in India – 
unemployment among youth, especially those from 
marginalized sections of society, due to lack of 21st century 
skills. YEP provides employability training, imparting skills such 
as business communication, aptitude, computer programming 
and domain skills with the help of subject matter experts, 
domain leaders, and certiﬁed trainers from TCS. 
The program oﬀers participants a smooth transition from college 
to careers, building their conﬁdence and enhancing their social 
and economic status through its unique teach, coach, mentor, 
and place model. It helps them navigate opportunities available 
in the Indian job market with career guidance and mentoring, 
training on interview skills and access to market-facing 
certiﬁcations and hands-on real-time project experience.
Since its inception, the program has:
Improved the economic and social status of the 
beneﬁciaries and their families.
Encouraged diversity and gender parity within the 
workforce while creating inclusion and access for 
marginalized groups across the country.
Increased the credibility and visibility of the training partner 
institutions involved with YEP.
Enabled access for corporates to season-agnostic, industryready talent.
Created speciﬁc career paths for students in hospitality, 
banking, retail and IT (which include cyber security, 
networking, IT automation, Data Analytics, UX, SFDC to 
name a few, etc.).
In FY 2023, more than 31,000 students were trained across 
India, of which 57% were women and 17% from the groups 
qualifying for aﬃrmative action programs. Over 10,000 students 
have gained employment in the IT/ITES, banking, retail ﬁelds.
YEP Case Study
Preeti Diwakar was born and brought up 
at Panipat in Haryana, and later her family 
shifted to Kaushambi in Uttar Pradesh. Her 
father worked as a helper at local grocery 
shops while her mother supported with 
household chores in neighborhood. Their 
meagre income barely put food on the table 
for the family of five. 
Preeti had to fight hard in her pursuit 
of education. She funded her own education by taking up 
tuitions and borrowing course books from senior students 
in school. While pursuing BCom at University of Allahabad, 
she discovered a strong desire to learn about the intricacies 
of stock market, and later taught her classmates. But she 
had neither the funds to invest nor the conﬁdence to speak 
about it. She also lacked clarity on career goals or available job 
prospects.
TCS Youth Employability Program brought a ray of sunshine 
to her gloomy worldview. During the Covid years, Preeti not 
only learned math and reasoning skills, she also worked on her 
overall personality. She learnt from her trainer, the importance 
of public speaking, projecting conﬁdence in online interviews, 
and active listening. In the TCS NQT exam later that year, she 
scored 77.39% and got placed in December ’21.
She launched a website and her ﬁrst YouTube channel 
“Commerce Stocking” about stock market investment tips. In 
December’22, she quit her job and became an entrepreneur, 
launching her dream website for educating people on the 
ﬁnancial sector. In her own words, it was TCS’ YEP which 
enabled her to ﬁnd her own voice and she has been following 
it all along since then.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 140
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Social Innovation
Digital Impact Square (DISQ) is a social innovation platform 
established in 2015 in Nashik, Maharashtra. The platform 
encourages innovation among young employees who harness 
the power of digital technology and engage with the digital 
ecosystem, to develop solutions for a lasting change in society.
Since its founding, DISQ has worked with 7 cohorts with more 
than 600 innovators, 35% of who are female. These innovators 
hail from 22 states and from over 180 colleges across India. 
In FY 2023, DISQ encouraged innovation using digital 
technologies to address the social challenges drawn from the 
voice of citizens, domain experts, local administration, and the 
government and has nurtured over 65 changemakers. These are 
purpose-led innovations in agri-tech, assistive-tech, health and 
wellness tech and sustainability tech across india.
DISQ oﬀers innovators extensive mentoring, access to 
ecosystems speciﬁc to their challenges, and a seed fund for 
investment in creating their innovation and start-up, along with 
physical infrastructure that fosters out-of-the-box thinking and a 
supportive ecosystem with domain partners for validation.
Modeled around DISQ, Petronas and TCS in Malaysia, recently 
launched SEEd.Lab - a one-of-its-kind social enterprise innovation 
hub which targets youth unemployment. It promotes selfsustaining enterprises that forge solutions to the challenges 
faced in their communities by leveraging technology and 
innovation.
DISQ Case Study
Vesatogo Innovations is a Nashik-based agritech startup 
conceptualized in 2019 by DISQ Changemakers who were 
passionate about reimagining the agrarian landscape.
Their solution, conceptualized and designed at TCS’ Digital 
Impact Square (DISQ), provides mobile and web-based seed 
to-plate supply chain management tools to reduce operating 
costs for farmer producer organizations and agribusinesses, 
and enable small farmers to have better market linkages.
It was awarded the National Startup Award 2021 in the Rural 
Impact category and was amongst the selected 175 startups 
across country to interact with the Honourable Prime Minister 
Narendra Modi.
Other accolades include the Emerging Social Enterprise 2021 
award from TiE Hyderabad, winner of TATA Motor’s TACNet 
Initiative and Best Indian Social Enterprise Award by Action for 
India 2019.
Health and Wellness
Holistic well-being programs oﬀered within TCS promote 
healthier lifestyles by oﬀering work-life balance and by looking 
into emotional health. When people are in a state of well-being 
at work, they are motivated to realize their potential, take on 
responsibility, build positive workplace relationships, manage 
their time better, make meaningful contributions, and be 
productive and creative.
TCS actively promotes healthy and active lifestyles with 
employee engagement programs like Fit4Life, Purpose4Life and 
SafetyFirst which help create awareness about health and ﬁtness 
and enables its employees to engage with the community for a 
positive impact.
TCS has provided an integrated Hospital Management System 
and IT infrastructure, which includes a comprehensive and 
fully integrated web-based solution to The Cancer Institute, 
Chennai. TCS has also provided support to integrate the Health 
Insurance Scheme with the National Medical Commission (NMC) 
dashboard to facilitate daily syncing of patient data and statistics 
to aid monitoring and auditing. It has also been building new 
features including compliance with statutory requirements.
TCS continued its support of the Hospital Management 
System (HMS) at Tata Medical Center (TMC), Kolkata. TMC 
Kolkata was recently accredited with National Accreditation 
Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), which 
assures quality service to patients. TCS plays a crucial role in 
by providing IT solutions for various non-conformities raised 
by NABH Assessors. It works closely with the Bone Marrow 
Transplant department to provide IT related support for its 
FACT accreditation and has provided IT support to TMC for their 
Pharmacy migration to ‘TATA 1mg.’
TCS’ transformations at Tata Medical Center, Kolkata and Cancer 
Institute, Chennai facilitated more than 117,600 new patient 
consultations in FY 2023.
TCS partnered with TMC, Kolkata to successfully establish Tata 
Translational Cancer Research Centre (TTCRC). The partnership 
was established to create an interactive environment for 
clinicians, scientists, and industry to collaborate and translate 
data driven and discovery-based science for improvements in 
patient care. It focuses on personalizing therapies, decreasing 
the cost of treatment, and developing innovative care delivery 
models for cancer patients in India.
TCS contributes to initiatives at TTCRC through multi-omics 
and bioinformatics analysis, scientiﬁc data management, 
management of multi-centric clinical studies – such as the large 
one on Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL), clinical decisions 
automation and the development of innovative digital solutions. 

Corporate Social Responsibility | 141
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
HOPE - Hours of Purpose by Employees 
TCS’ growing, highly skilled and diverse workforce serves as 
champions to build organic connects with the community 
while accelerating social impact. Opportunities for employees 
to volunteer time include skills-based volunteering, pro bono 
support to community-based organization and social cause 
leadership. TCS community investments have been actualized, 
in a large part, by its large employee base who generously 
volunteer their time, skills and expertise as last-mile connectors.
In FY 2023, TCS launched the civic movement 
#millionhoursofpurpose, a collaborative eﬀort by TCSers 
to volunteer a million hours of purpose in a quarter which 
celebrates a positive impact for the people, by the people.
The initiative encourages employees to support in diﬀerent 
causes, be it an employee’s own initiative, a TCS community 
program, a TATA engagement or one with its customers. Through 
this, TCSers have created positive impact in myriad ways, 
addressing the 17 UN SDGs, ranging from planting saplings and 
trees, making and distributing newspaper bags, raising mental 
health awareness and educating children in schools, to name 
a few. TCSers also contribute to the Tata group’s volunteering 
initiatives twice a year, such as Tata Volunteering Week and ProEngage (long-term pro bono volunteering).
All the volunteering initiatives are monitored and driven by 
‘Purpose Councils’ which consists of leaders from regions 
and business units. Omnichannel campaigns have also been 
launched at unit, branch and account level business groups to 
raise awareness, drive eﬀorts, generate feedback and collect 
ideas. This has been supported by corporate-led communication 
and marketing events which have helped realize the initiative, 
project themes and recognize star volunteers, events, volunteer 
stories and journeys. TCSers far exceeded the pledge of a 
#millionhoursofpurpose, by volunteering over 2 million hours in 
Q4.
HOPE Case Study
When you find your why, you don’t hit snooze anymore! I take pride in being a 
ŵŽƵƚŚƉŝĞĐĞĨŽƌƚŚĞǀŽŝĐĞůĞƐƐ͘/ƐƚƌŝǀĞƚŽĞŶƐƵƌĞĞǀĞƌǇŽŶĞĂƚŵǇŽĨĨŝĐĞŝƐĂǁĂƌĞŽĨĞǀĞƌǇ
ǀŽůƵŶƚĞĞƌŝŶŐŽƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ͕ĂŶĚ/ƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞŝŶĂůůŽĨƚŚĞŵ͘
,KWŝƐŽĨŐƌĞĂƚŝŵƉŽƌƚĂŶĐĞĂƐŝƚĞŶĐŽƵƌĂŐĞƐĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐƚŽĚŝƐĐŽǀĞƌƚŚĞŝƌƉƵƌƉŽƐĞĂŶĚ
ĐĂƚĞƌƚŽƚŚĞŶĞĞĚƐŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ͘
>ŽƵƌĚĞƐDŽŶƚĞŝƌŽ
ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ͕,Z͕EĂŐƉƵƌ
ŶĐŽƵƌĂŐŝŶŐĂƚĞĂŵŽĨϮϬϬнĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐƚŽǁĂƌĚƐĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞ,KWĐĂŵƉĂŝŐŶǁĂƐ
ĂŶĂŵĂǌŝŶŐĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ͘
/ƚǁĂƐǁŽŶĚĞƌĨƵůƚŽƐĞĞƉĞŽƉůĞƚĂŬĞƵƉǀŽůƵŶƚĞĞƌŝŶŐĂĐƚŝǀŝƚŝĞƐůŝŬĞƚƌĞĞƉůĂŶƚŝŶŐĂŶĚ
ĐŽĂĐŚŝŶŐƵŶĚĞƌƉƌŝǀŝůĞŐĞĚƐƚƵĚĞŶƚƐ͘ƐĂĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ͕ǁŝƚŚŽƵƌ ũŽŝŶƚĞĨĨŽƌƚƐ͕/ďĞůŝĞǀĞǁĞ
ĐĂŶŵƵůƚŝƉůǇŽƵƌŝŵƉĂĐƚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ,KW͘
sĂƌƐŚŶŝŶŝ D
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌ͕&^͕ĂŶŐĂůŽƌĞ

Corporate Social Responsibility | 142
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Volunteering for Youth Employment 
Program (YEP)
Rahul Pathak’s journey of volunteering 
started six years back, with him 
travelling to Osmanabad around 280 
kms from Pune over weekends to 
teach the students of Terna College of 
Engineering. 
Rahul did face challenges initially teaching in virtual mode, 
but he overcame it by using eﬀective online teaching skills 
like polling, breakout rooms etc. He felt because of the virtual 
mode now he can contribute to engineering colleges outside 
Maharashtra. In his sessions, Rahul always gives practical 
examples which the students can relate to, and understand 
better. He also helps these youth in developing conﬁdence so 
that they can succeed in all aspects of their lives.
Rahul quotes “I felt quite proud as a teacher when my students 
secured their dream jobs. My life suddenly seemed to have 
a meaning and purpose. Giving is the greatest feeling in the 
world, and seeing my students achieve their goals and ﬂourish 
in their jobs brings me enormous joy. Continue to contribute 
to this worthy cause; these youngsters desperately need 
mentoring from TCS YEP Faculties.”
TCS Volunteers Deploy with Red Cross, NA
In Oct’22, ﬁve TCSers deployed to Florida with the Red Cross 
to volunteer in areas impacted by Hurricane Ian, the deadliest 
hurricane to have hit Florida in decades. Their reasons were 
different and reflected their life experiences. Some signed on 
to a 9-day deployment to give back to the community the help 
they had received during a natural disaster. Others had served 
previously with the military or a service organization and 
wanted to use that experience to help.
During their deployment, Aria Rahimi, Lewis Hunt, Charu 
Mehndiratta, Patty Sanchez, and Niki Shah packed food 
supplies and distributed them to aﬀected communities on 
Pine Island and other areas in Lee County. They assisted in 
identifying and addressing local needs with respect to shelter, 
food, health and spiritual services.
Business with Purpose
Business with Purpose is a distinctive framework that enables 
‘Purpose Partnerships’ with like-minded organizations to 
advance access, equity and inclusion around the world. The 
function serves as an accelerator for social good and as a 
catalyst between purpose-driven organizations. Several studies 
and surveys have revealed that consumers are loyal towards 
organizations that are “purpose driven” and have an objective of 
“giving back to the community.” 
Business with Purpose provides opportunities for business 
leaders from customers’ organizations to meet their 
commitment to the society. This is enabled with strategic and 
established programs like goIT, Ignite My Future in School, Youth 
Employment which addresses pressing issues in countries where 
TCS and its customers live and work.
Over 185 customer leaders which include 45 senior executives 
participated in various CSR initiatives globally in FY 2023.
Community Innovation Program
This initiative provides advisory and technology consulting 
services on pro bono basis, to build capacity and capability for 
organizations and non-proﬁts that seek to create social and 
environmental impact. 
In this digital age, it is imperative for non-proﬁt organizations 
to use technology to become sustainable and build trust with 
a multitude of stakeholders. TCS’ leadership and employees 
provide pro bono technology services to such organizations 
to generate sustainable impact. TCS works closely with key 
stakeholders to understand their requirements and build the 
right software tools that help them establish a digital presence, 
raise funds more easily, build transparency in their operations 
and work more efficiently.
This helps those organizations extend their support to more 
local and global beneﬁciaries, demonstrating the force multiplier 
effect that technology can play. Millions of dollars of ‘social 
value’ have been generated by this program since its inception.
International Medical Corps (IMC) Case Study
A ﬁrst responder, International Medical Corps (IMC) provides 
emergency relief to those struck by conﬂict, disaster, and 
disease. 
IMC approached TCS seeking help in digitizing their vendor 
pre-qualiﬁcation platform, a critical component of the 
procurement workﬂow. IMC does not procure supplies from 
a vendor who has not completed the qualiﬁcation process or 
whose qualiﬁcation has lapsed, which can lead to a shortage of 
critical supplies that IMC beneﬁciaries depend on. 
The process was arduous and complicated with a high 
margin for potential error. After in-depth research seeking 
to gain a comprehensive understanding of IMC’s vendor 
pre-qualiﬁcation system, TCS redesigned and enhanced the 
existing system by placing it in a digital platform that is more 
transparent and accessible for IMC’s team. The system oﬀers 
IMC a structured workﬂow for maintaining vendor information, 
tracking critical vendor qualiﬁcation status, and ensuring the 
organization has on-demand and concurrent access to vital 
information throughout the vendor database.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 143
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Last year, the organization responded directly to the needs of 
more than 18 million people in 30 countries on ﬁve continents, 
including more than 1 million people in the United States.
“Being a ﬁrst responder organization means our work is 
fast-paced and vital to vulnerable populations. Working 
with TCS enabled us to increase the eﬃciency of our vendor 
prequaliﬁcation process, which is critical to our operations,” 
said Salma Abdelfattah, Pharmaceutical Services Coordinator, 
International Medical Corps.
Digital Empowers
TCS’s Digital Empowers is a thought leadership initiative that 
raises awareness on how digital tools and innovative technology 
catalyzes social impact. The program focuses on convening 
experts from technology, business, non-proﬁt, public policy, 
and academia to ideate, collaborate, and create digitally driven 
solutions towards challenges of social impact. TCS has grown the 
Digital Empowers community by more than 500 individuals and 
the website provides up-to-date information for forums, events 
and insight reports.
For FY 2023, TCS Digital Empowers, North America partnered 
with Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP) and PYXERA 
Global to host an eight-part virtual forum series on food security, 
the future of work, mental health equity, the digital divide and 
disaster response. The ﬁnal forum took place in February 2023, 
and the seven forums in 2022 culminated in an annual 2023 
Summit.
The pilot of Digital Empowers Collaborative launched this year, 
facilitated a 20-person collaboration from across sectors to 
explore how digital can empower a more equitable and inclusive 
future of work. The group hosted four expert speakers and spent 
more than 150 professional hours to develop three partnership 
solution concepts to improve the future of work:
Digital Upskilling - A path to bring down the digital divide for 
rural residents over the age of 50 for better participation in 
the digital economy.
Generational Workforce Knowledge Retention - A digital 
wiki concept developed to support institutional knowledge 
retention and cross-pollination of senior knowledge 
to juniors enabling the retention of knowledge from a 
growing retiring population amidst the high turnover rate 
experienced by many organizations.
Equitable Foundation for the Workforce of Tomorrow – An 
employee resource group idea designed for a large-scale 
group with high accountability and impact to create a safer 
and more transparent workplace
Purpose Partnerships
TCS’ CSR education programs focus on developing 21st century 
skills among the underrepresented and socio-economically 
weaker sections of society. The National Education Policy 2020 
also recommends that skills like computational thinking, design 
thinking, problem-solving, and critical thinking should be 
included in the curriculum. 
The company leverages its industry and social responsibility 
expertise to builds the capacity of educators and to nurture 
students from marginalized communities globally. This is 
achieved through partnerships with the right institutions for 
disseminating TCS’ programs such as IMF and goIT which are in 
line with nationwide goals. 
The partnership with Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan enabled statewide deployment of these programs throughout India. For 
example, in Gujarat training of 75,000 middle school teachers 
from 14,486 schools is expected to benefit 1.8 million students 
in grades 6, 7 and 8 over a period of 3 years
Major partnerships in FY 2023 include:
Partnership with the state government departments of 
social welfare for deployment in residential and dayboarding schools they run. For example, partnerships with 
UP Samaj Kalyan department (105 schools) and the Andhra 
Pradesh social welfare department (189 schools).
Partnership with the education department to integrate 
21st-century skills into textbooks and the curriculum.
Partnering with ACM India to organizing challenges to 
generate interest and motivate students. For example, the 
Bebras India CT challenge which reached 65,000 students 
aged between 8-18, from 20 states in 8 diﬀerent languages; 
and goIT monthly challenge for the global innovator. 
Membership of bodies such as the Computer Science 
Teachers Association.
Partnership with Tata group companies such as Tata Steel 
Foundation which brought computational thinking to 5,000 
students from schools in tribal areas.
Partnership with Academia to design and develop a M.A 
in Education (Ed Tech) course for in-service teachers on 
Computational teaching from 2023-2024 at Tata Institute of 
Social Sciences (TISS).
Partnership with Gujarat Knowledge Society to improve 
the knowledge and employability of young undergraduate/ 
graduate students from over 450 government and 
government aided colleges.
Partnership with department of higher and technical 
education, Puducherry, to deploy youth employment 
program in 11 government aided colleges to enhance the 
employability of graduate and undergraduate youth.
Partnership for inclusion of dedicated career paths in IT – 
Full Stack Web Development, Cloud Computing, Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence, UX design, Project Management, IT Support, IT 
Automation, Digital Marketing, Data Analytics and domain – 
hospitality.
Disaster Relief Efforts
Ukraine War 
TCS extended its support to the humanitarian tragedy that 
unfolded in Ukraine through ﬁnancial contribution of €1 million 

Corporate Social Responsibility | 144
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
to UNICEF, CARE, and the European Food Banks Federation 
(FEBA). A matched giving campaign for the company’s 
employees and networks was launched to build on the initiatives 
of its employees across Europe. TCS employees in the region 
collectively donated €130,000 which was matched by TCS, 
totalling €260,000. This resulted in a ﬁnal contribution of 
€1,260,000.
TCS participated in the ‘Sunﬂower Project’, an initiative from 
the ‘Tent Partnership for Refugees’. It provided mentoring, 
training and upskilling to displaced Ukrainians to support their 
economic integration in the host countries. It also organized inkind donations of more than 300 laptops to schools that support 
refugees in Europe.
TCS launched several mentorship programs in Europe to help 
refugees enter the labor market. This involves capacity building 
to strengthen the capabilities of NGOs through participation in 
TCS’s Global Community Innovation program and exploration 
of the upskilling needs of refugees with TCS Education Business 
Units. TCS worked with another non-proﬁt organization in 
Finland that trains refugees from Ukraine as part of a program.
Turkey / Syria Earthquake
The earthquake in Turkey and Syria caused massive destruction 
and loss of lives. TCSers were quick to respond and extended 
their support to the humanitarian tragedy. Employees 
volunteered with local NGOs and launched donation drives 
across TCS’ oﬃces in Europe to collect winter clothes, blankets, 
food, and hygiene supplies for the aﬀected population. 
The company partnered with non-proﬁt partners like 
UNICEF, CARE and the European Food Banks Federation to 
address critical needs such as access to safe drinking water 
and sanitation services, benefiting over 20 million people. 
Furthermore, short-term relief support such as shelter, food and 
health and long-term resilience care (child protection, psychosocial protection and temporary learning spaces) were provided.
TCS also made a ﬁnancial contribution to UNICEF’s long-term 
humanitarian relief eﬀorts in support and solidarity with the 
people of Turkey and Syria. Additionally, a matched giving 
campaign was launched for the global workforce across various 
platforms. Donations made by TCS employees, their families 
and networks were matched up to €200,000, for a combined 
contribution of up to €550,000, through this.
Assam Floods
During the Assam flood, TCS aided the relief activities through 
its branch in Kolkata. Flood responses were carried out in the 
severely aﬀected areas of Cachar District, including the Kalain, 
Katigorah, Borkhola and Salchapra blocks. 
Over 1,200 household beneﬁciaries were identiﬁed after a 
thorough door-to-door survey and approximately 850 shelter 
kits and 800 housing kits were distributed to them. The 
volunteering eﬀorts included surveying each village to identify 
beneﬁciary households, identifying and ﬁnalizing potential 
distribution sites, and meeting stakeholders such as the District 
Disaster Management Authority, and local security forces to 
coordinate efforts. TCS also rendered additional support through 
volunteer mapping, coupon generation and distribution at the 
village level, as well as relief distribution.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 145
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Business 
Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
In May 2022, TCS became the first company to publish the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) to 
provide investors with enhanced disclosures about its ESG 
practices. The BRSR framework is based on the National 
Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) and 
consists of three sections: 
Section A provides a broad overview of the business, its 
offerings, business and operations footprint, employees, related 
parties, CSR and transparency. 
Section B covers management and process disclosures related 
to the businesses aimed at demonstrating the structures, 
policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC 
Principles and Core Elements. 
Section C provides indicator-wise disclosures mapped to the 
nine principles of NGRBC which are listed at the start of Section 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Details of the listed entity1
 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity: 
L22210MH1995PLC084781
 
Name of the Listed Entity: Tata Consultancy Services 
Limited
 
Year of incorporation: 1995
 
Registered office address: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021, India
 
Corporate address: TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort, 
Mumbai 400 001, Maharashtra, India.
 
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com
 
Telephone: 91 22 6778 9595
 
Website: www.tcs.com
 
Financial year for which reporting is being done: 
Financial year 2022-23 (April 1, 2022 to March 31, 
2023)

GRI 2-1, GRI 2-3

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 146
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed: National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited
 
11. Paid-up Capital: ₹365.91 crore
 
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report: 
 
 
Name: Milind Lakkad
 
 
Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer
 
 
Telephone number: 022 67789999
 
 
E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com
 
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken 
together).2
Data
Basis
Exclusions
Financial
TCS’ consolidated global operations.
None
Human Resources
Generic topics: TCS’ global operations, 
including wholly owned subsidiaries.
Statutory topics: TCS’ India operations. 
Non wholly owned subsidiaries accounting for 
< 0.26% of the consolidated headcount.
Exclusions pertaining to individual disclosures 
are mentioned in the respective Notes.
Environmental
TCS’ global offices and delivery centers 
where it has operational control.
Centers where TCS does not have operational 
control accounting for < 2% headcount.
 
 
The data measurement techniques used, and the basis of calculations and estimates have been mentioned in the relevant 
areas of this report. TCS does not believe there is any substantial divergence from the GRI Indicator Protocols. The scope, 
boundaries, and methodology for data analysis in this document remain the same as in the prior year and are mentioned 
above. There has been no restatement3 of information or changes in the material topics since the prior year. The data is 
sourced from Ultimatix, TCS’ core enterprise platform. Other supporting data is reviewed by relevant third-party assurers as 
part of ISO and financial audit.
 
 
External Assurance4: Ernst & Young Associates LLP has assured the data presented under GRI Standards of disclosure as 
specified in their Assurance Statement. The scope and basis of assurance have been described in their assurance letter. The 
Board was not involved in seeking this assurance.
II. 
Products/services5
 
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
 
 
TCS provides IT services, consulting and business solutions to many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformational 
journeys. Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided in the Financial 
Performance Overview section of Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
 
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
 
 
Application Development and Maintenance, Consulting and Service Integration, Digital Transformation Services, Cognitive 
Business Operations and Products and Platforms. 
 
 
Some of the services broadly map to NIC classes 6201, 6202, 6209 and 6311.
III. Operations6
 
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices (Delivery offices)
Total
National
Delivery centers – 111, Offices – 9 

International
Delivery centers – 73, Offices – 112

GRI 2-2

GRI 2-4

GRI 2-5

GRI 2-6

GRI 2-6

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 147
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
17. Markets served by the entity:
 
 
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
28 States and 8 Union Territories
International (No. of Countries)

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 
 
 
The contribution of exports as a percentage of TCS’ Standalone turnover is 94.3%.
 
 
A brief on types of customers

public sector. In India, TCS works with departments of the Government of India, various state governments, systemically 
important entities and the private sector.
IV. Employees
 
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year: FY 2022-23
 
 
Employees (including differently abled)7:
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Permanent (D)
613,194
393,771
64.2
219,423
35.8
Other than Permanent (E)
2,527
1,343
53.1
1,184
46.9
Total employees (D + E)
615,721
395,114
64.2
220,607
35.8
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Based on TCS’ global headcount; excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
 
 
Other than Permanent category includes individuals on direct TCS contracts / retainers.
 
 
Differently abled Employees:
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Permanent (D)

76.1

23.9
Other than Permanent (E)

Total differently abled 
employees (D + E)

76.1

23.9
 
 
 
Note:
 
 
 
Differently abled includes hearing, visual, locomotor, orthopedic and others. 
 
19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women8
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors

22.2
Key Management Personnel

0.0
Senior Management
29,933
3,981
13.3
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Key Management Personnel (KMP) are Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO & MD), Chief Operating 
Officer and Executive Director (COO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS).
 
 
Senior Management excludes Directors and KMP.

 GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8

 GRI 405-1

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 148
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees9
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
20.9%
21.9%
21.3%
17.3%
17.8%
17.5%
7.5%
7.5%
7.5%
 
 
Note:
 
 
Turnover rates mentioned above are for TCS’ global headcount, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
 
21. Names of holding / subsidiary10 
No.
Name of the holding /
subsidiary/(A)
Indicate 
whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)

Tata Sons Private Limited
Holding
N/A
 Yes 

TCS Foundation
Subsidiary 

Yes 

APTOnline Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

MP Online Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Subsidiary 

Yes 

C-Edge Technologies Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

MahaOnline Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Subsidiary 

Yes 

Subsidiary 

Yes 

Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (Pty) Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services France 
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Belgium
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A.
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services (Portugal) Unipessoal, 
Limitada
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Diligenta Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

 GRI 401-1

 GRI 2-2

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 149
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
No.
Name of the holding /
subsidiary/(A)
Indicate 
whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)

Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited 
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata America International Corporation
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

TCS Iberoamerica SA
Subsidiary 


TCS Solution Center S.A.
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

TCS Uruguay S.A.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A.
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A.
Subsidiary 

Yes 

TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada
Subsidiary 


MGDC S.C.
Subsidiary 


TCS Business Services GmbH
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited
Subsidiary 

Yes 

TCS Technology Solutions AG 
Subsidiary 


Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V.
Subsidiary 


Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD 
Subsidiary 

Yes 

Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A.
Subsidiary 

Yes 
VI. CSR Details
 
22. (i) 
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) Yes
 
 
(ii) Turnover (in ₹) ₹225,458 crore
 
 
(iii) Net worth (in ₹) ₹90,424 crore
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
 
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)11
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
https://on.tcs.
com/Global-CSRPolicy

Investors (other 
than shareholders)
Shareholders
Yes
As per SEBI Listing 
Regulations

11: GRI 2-25

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 150
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)11
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Employees *
Yes

In Progress

Customers
Yes.
Escalation 
mechanisms 
are defined in 
individual client 
contracts and 
addressed as per 
TCS Quality Policy.

In Progress

Value Chain 
Partners
https://on.tcs.
com/WhistleBP

Closed

* Note: 
 
 
Data specific to India
 
24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues12
 
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying 
the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt 
or mitigate13
Financial implications of the 
risk or opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative
implications)14
Kindly refer the “Enterprise Risk Management section” in Management Discussion and Analysis
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section describes the structures, policies and processes aligned to nine principles of business responsibility. These briefly are as 
follows:
P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle
P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalized
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment
P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner
12: GRI 3-2
13 GRI 3-3
14 GRI 201-2

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 151
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
Policy and management processes
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)15
 
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)17
 
Web Link of the Policies, if available17
P1 to P9: Tata Code of Conduct 16(TCoC)
P1: Whistleblower Policy17
P2: Green Procurement Policy18 
P3 and P5: Employees related Policies19
P4 and P8: CSR Policy20
P6: Environmental Sustainability Policy21 
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / 
No)22
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/
No)23
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by 
your entity and mapped to each principle.
Y24
Y25
Y26
Y27
Y28
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any29.
Y30
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
Y31
15 GRI 2-23
16 https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct
17 https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP
18 https://on.tcs.com/GPP
19 HR policies available to employees on Ultimatix, TCS Intranet
20 https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
21 https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Sustainability
22 GRI 2-24
23 GRI 2-23
24 TATA Code of Conduct
25 iQMSTM, TCS’ Integrated Quality Management System, comprehensively integrates the requirements and best practices of the latest industry 
models, frameworks and standards such as ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2019, ISO 27701:2019, ISO 20017:2015, ISO 
27018:2019, CMMI® DEV v 2.0 and CMMI® SVC v2.0; Environmental Management System Standard ISO 14001:2015, Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System Standard ISO 45001:2018; as well as industry domain specific standards such as AS9100 (Aerospace), TL9000 (Telecom) and ISO 
13485 (Medical Devices).
26 Energy Management System Standard ISO 50001:2018
27 TCS is aligned with international laws, principles, and norms, including those contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and are a signatory to the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC) since 2006.
28 ISO 14001:2015, ISO 50001:2018
29 GRI 3-3
30 70% Reduction in absolute Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions (vs base year 2016), Net zero by 2030
31 71% Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions (vs base year 2016) and renewable energy use at 55.2% in FY 2023

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 152
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Governance, leadership and oversight
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)32
 
N G Subramaniam, COO & Executive Director, TCS33: “Our net zero goal underlines our renewed commitment to environmental 
stewardship. To curb emissions and limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to preindustrial levels, all organizations will have to reimagine existing business models and aim for sustainable growth. We are in a 
unique position to combine our purpose-driven world view with digital innovation to not only drive our own sustainability, but 
also partner with customers, civil society and governments to lead and shape solutions for a sustainable future,” 
 
At the core of TCS’ strategy to reduce its carbon footprint is increased use of renewable sources of energy, and improved 
energy efficiency. The company’s strategy for the latter includes addition of more green buildings to the company’s real estate 
portfolio, reduction of IT system power usage, and the use of TCS Clever Energy™, which leverages IoT, machine learning and AI 
to optimize energy consumption across campuses. TCS’ Vision 25x25 is a strategic lever that delinks TCS’ business growth from 
campus expansion and brings down emissions related to employee commutes and business travel. 
 
Environmental targets and achievements are part of Natural Capital section, which is a part of Integrated Annual Report.
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies)34.
Name: Milind Lakkad 
Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer 
Telephone number: 022 67789999 
E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com 
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes 
/ No). If yes, provide details35.
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC) of the 
Board of Directors is responsible for decision making 
on sustainability related issues.
DIN
Name
Designation
03611983
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
Chairman
00008886
Keki Mistry
Member
06365813
Rajesh Gopinathan
Member
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
(D)irector / (C)ommittee of the Board / Any 
(O)ther Committee / (B)oard of Directors
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half yearly (H) / 
Quarterly (Q) / Any other – please specify
 
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of 
any non-compliances
Statutory Compliance Certificate on applicable 
laws is provided by the CEO to the Board of 
Directors.
Quarterly
Annual where applicable
11. Has the entity carried out 
independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working 
of its policies by an 
external agency? (Yes/No). 
If yes, provide name of the 
agency.36
Y37
Y38
Y38
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
 
All the principles are covered by a policy at TCS.
32 GRI 2-22
33 https://www.tcs.com/tcs-targets-net-zero-emissions-by-2030
34 GRI 2-13
35 GRI 2-9
36 GRI 2-5
37 EY has provided a ‘limited assurance’ on sustainability disclosures based on GRI standards
38 TUV India Pvt Ltd.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 153
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.
Essential Indicators
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the Principles during the financial year#:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programs held *
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programs
Board of Directors

All
100%
Key Managerial Personnel

All
100%
Employees other than BoD and KMPs
18,738
All
99%
Notes:
All nine principles laid down in BRSR are covered by TCS mandatory trainings and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which is adhered 
to by all employees and Directors. 
Awareness programs covering the applicable principles were held and attended by all respective committee members of the 
Board and/or the Board of Directors.
*The count is based on the total number of relevant offering IDs of Virtual / Instructor Led Training programs in the learning 
management system, conducted in FY 2023, covering any of the nine principles. 
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following 
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website)39:
Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
NIL
Settlement
Compounding fee
 
Non-Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
Punishment
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or nonmonetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions
Not Applicable
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a weblink to the policy40.
 
Yes. The TCoC contains guidelines on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. TCS is committed to upholding the highest moral and 
ethical standards, and does not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. The policy is available on the company website at:
 
https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct
39 GRI 2-27 
40 GRI 2-23, GRI 205-2 
# GRI 2-17

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 154
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption41:
 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
1 (Under fraud)
3 (Under fraud)
 
Note:
 
Data specific to India. Cases pertain to employees in continued employment, where investigation by law enforcement 
agencies is underway, pending conclusion.
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
 
 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. 
 
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number 
of Awareness 
programs held
Topics / Principles covered under the training
% of value chain programs 
partners covered (by value 
of business done with 
such partners) under the 
awareness programs
878 • 
Principle 3: Awareness on Safe Work at height, Use of Personal 
Protective equipments, First aid & Medical Emergency, Incident 
Reporting, Housekeeping Awareness, Slip, trip, Falls, General Briefing 
on Covid-19, Electrical safety, Material Handling, Chemical Safety, 
Food Safety, Awareness on Earthing, Lux, Noise and Indoor Air Quality 
Monitoring, Material Safety Data Sheet, HSE Legal Requirement, Lockout and Tag-out, Permit to Work
Principle 6: Environmental Awareness – Overview, Noise Pollution, 
Energy Conservation, Waste Disposal, Green IT, Energy Management 
System
100% value chain partner 
were covered by training on 
various OH&S topics (including 
induction)
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If 
Yes, provide details of the same. 
 
Yes. Kindly refer to the section titled “Material aspects and TCS’ approach to them” in the Corporate Governance Report within 
the Integrated Annual Report.
41 GRI 205-3

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 155
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Amount in ₹ 
crore
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts42
R&D
2,500
(1.1% of 
Turnover)
2,242 
(1.2% of 
Turnover)
TCS’ investments in research and innovation have resulted in solutions like 
Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been using Clever Energy for the 
last few years to reduce its energy consumption, and is now commercially selling 
it and the other two solutions to clients to help them achieve their sustainability 
goals. All of this, along with greater use of renewable energy has helped TCS 
bring down its carbon footprint by 71% versus base year 2016. 43
Capex
3,063
(1.4% of 
Turnover)
2,964 
(1.5% of 
Turnover)
Investments in green buildings across locations.
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing44? (Yes/No)
 
 
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outline its commitment to making its supply chain 
more responsible and sustainable. The policies are available on TCS website:
TCS Policy
Web link
Sustainable Supply Chain policy
https://on.tcs.com/SSCP
Green Procurement policy
https://on.tcs.com/GPP
 
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
 
100% of the companies’ suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) 
Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste45.
 
TCS does not manufacture any product hence this question is not applicable. 
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
 
No. EPR is not applicable to TCS.
Leadership Indicators
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
 
TCS is primarily an IT services organization and products, if any, are software products. Hence the life-cycle approach is not 
applicable to the company’s offerings. 
NIC Code
Name of Product/
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes/
No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No). If 
yes, provide the web-link.
Not Applicable
42 TCFD Metrics and Targets A
43 TCS Energy Management Solution – TCS AR FY 2016-17 
44 GRI 308-1 
45 GRI 306-2

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 156
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products 
/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the 
same along-with action taken to mitigate the same46. 
 
TCS is a provider of IT consulting services and business solutions. No social or environmental concerns are associated with the use 
of its offerings. Details of the environmental footprint of TCS’ operations and mitigation steps are provided as part of disclosures 
under Principle 6. 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
 
Not applicable to TCS. 
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
 
Not applicable to TCS. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
 
Not applicable to TCS. 
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
Details of measures for the well-being of employees47:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
334,825
334,825
100.0
334,825
100.0

0.02
334,044
99.8
Female
189,017
189,017
100.0
189,017
100.0
189,017
100.0
188,796
99.9
Total
523,842 523,842
100.0 523,842
100.0 189,017
100.0

0.02 522,840
99.8
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Male
1,256
1,256
100.0
1,256
100.0
Female
1,156
1,156
100.0
1,156
100.0
1,156
100.0
Total
2,412
2,412
100.0
2,412
100.0
1,156
100.0
 
Notes:
 
Data specific to India. 
 
Paternity Leave benefit is applicable only to employees of the erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited.
 
TCS does not offer daycare facilities on its premises. TCS has location-wise tie-ups with third-party run day care centers, 
which employees can avail of.
 
TCS monitors and tracks compliance of vendors with regard to statutory benefits and other state-wise labor rules pertaining 
to individuals on their payrolls working on TCS premises.
46 GRI 306-2
47 GRI 401-2 

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 157
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year48.
Benefits
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
No. of employees 
covered as a % of total 
employees
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of total 
employees
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/N/N.A.)


Gratuity


ESI




NPS


 
Notes:
 
Data specific to India. 
 
All employees are covered under PF and Gratuity from their date of joining.
 
TCS monitors and tracks compliance of vendors with regard to statutory benefits and other state-wise labor rules pertaining 
to individuals on their payrolls working on TCS premises.
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPWD 2016 ACT)? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this 
regard. 
 
Yes. All TCS-owned premises have accessibility provided as per the RPWD 2016 ACT.
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a weblink to the policy. – 
 
Yes. The Tata Code of Conduct can be accessed at: https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct. Additionally, there is a Disability 
Inclusion Policy, governing TCS’ India operations mapped to the RPWD 2016 ACT, governing TCS’ India operations, available to 
employees on the company’s local intranet.
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave49.
Gender
Permanent employees
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
87%
Female 
91%
90%
Total
91%
90%
 
Notes:
 
Data specific to India.
 
Return to work: Rate of employees who joined back from their parental leave in FY 2023.
 
Retention Rate: Of the employees “Returned to Work”, % of employees those who are employed with TCS at the end of FY 
2023.
 
Parental leave includes maternity leave, paternity leave and adoption leave.
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances50 for the following categories of employees and worker? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes, employees can use the “Employee Concerns” application to log their grievances in TCS 
internal portal, which is addressed by the respective stakeholders within the stipulated timelines.
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Yes, Non-permanent employees can raise the grievances via email to the concerned 
stakeholders. 
48 GRI 201-3 
49 GRI 401-3
50 GRI 2-25

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 158
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity51:
Category
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total
employees in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees 
in respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s)or 
Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total
employees
in respective 
category
(C)
No. of employees 
in respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/ C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
523,842

0.01
508,186

0.01
-Male
334,825

0.02
325,241

0.02
-Female
189,017

0.00
182,945

0.00
 
Note: Data specific to India. 
Details of training given to employees and workers52:
Category
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total (A) On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
393,771
388,587
98.7
349,717
88.8
379,942
374,645
98.6
367,461
96.7
Female
219,423
213,293
97.2
193,281
88.1
210,720
205,656
97.6
201,314
95.5
Total 
613,194
601,880
98.2
542,998
88.6
590,662
580,301
98.2
568,775
96.3
 
Note:
 
Data is based on TCS’ global headcount of permanent employees, and excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees53:
Category
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
253,389
248,055
97.9
251,176
248,972
99.1
Female
143,140
136,061
95.1
131,896
130,857
99.2
Total
396,529
384,116
96.9
383,072
379,829
99.2
 
Notes:
 
Data specific to India. 
 
Column A represents employees eligible for annual performance review and excludes new joiners with less than a year in the 
company.
10. Health and safety management system:
 
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system54?
 
 
Yes. TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management System standard across 127 of its 
facilities worldwide as on 31st March, 2023. These certified locations constitute 81% of office footprint and >94% of people 
footprint operating from these locations.
51 GRI 2-30 
52 GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1 
53 GRI 404-3 
54 GRI 403-1

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 159
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee reviews the company’s health and safety performance on a half yearly basis. Over 94% 
of the workforce is represented in joint management-employee health and safety committees that monitor, advise and drive 
occupational, health and safety initiatives.
 
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity55?
 
 
As a part of its ISO 45001:2018 compliant Occupational Health and Safety Management System, TCS has a documented 
procedure to carry out assessment of work-related hazards and risks for all routine and non-routine activities carried out at 
any location. Hazard and risk identification is carried out by the process owners in consultation with the safety experts. The 
process owners are responsible to ensure adequate controls are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS 
risks. Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified hazards and risks. 
 
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)56
 
 
Yes. TCS has a safety incident reporting and management process to ensure that all work-related incidents (which include 
accidents, near-misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts) are reported and closed after taking necessary corrective 
actions. This is enabled through an online safety incident reporting tool which is accessible to all TCS employees to facilitate 
transparent reporting. The platform also supports incident investigation and corrective action with the perspective of 
eliminating hazards and preventing incidents. The awareness to employees on incident reporting is created during induction, 
mandatory OHS web-based training (WBT) and communication through mailers during monthly theme on incident reporting. 
The action owners are also sensitized on the importance of taking corrective action within given timelines with the 
perspective of eliminating hazards and ensuring mitigation plan is implemented

these issues are resolved by the concerned action owner within prescribed timelines. They can also email their concerns to 
the Corporate HSE email ID and communicate with local health and safety teams.
 
 Do the employees of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)57
 
 
Yes. TCS recognizes that overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral to its success and growth 
aspirations. TCS has taken a holistic approach to well-being to cover mental health, ergonomic health, physical health, and 
safety at home, delivered through digital channels, hospital insurance services, occupational health services and through 
seamless integration of all stakeholders. 
 
 
TCS has occupational health centers (OHC) at TCS facilities in India. The employees and contractors at these facilities have 
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services as well. During the year, TCS facilitated several virtual specialist 
consultations with physiotherapists, gynecologists, nutritionists, gastroenterologists with whom employees can book prescheduled appointments and avail the services. These consulting services have helped employees to a large extent during 
their return to the offices after the pandemic. 
 
 
Beyond the OHCs, TCS provides comprehensive medical and healthcare services to employees through the company-funded 
medical insurance to employees and their dependents. In overseas geographies, non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services are provided as per the country regulations. 
 
 
To enable physical fitness, TCS has recreational facilities and gymnasiums at many of its facilities; it organized yoga programs 
such as online sessions, sun salutation challenge and personalized yoga training; continued to run the Fit4Life program with 
daily workout sessions, walking and running challenges.
 
 
Mental well being: TCS, through its TCS Cares initiative, instituted programs for employees and their families to help 
cope with the mental stress and anxiety. Online counselling sessions and self-help resources help employees facing high 
distress levels through empathetic support by HR, managers, and peers. Emotional well-being (EWB) leaves are available 
to employees who need it. With many employees returning to work during the year, ‘Return to office’ transition program 
included multiple training and sensitization programs for HRs, managers and employees. TCS Cares mental health wellness 
web-based training (WBT) was completed by many employees during the year. Also, several leaders completed the Cares 
Leadership Program. Global mental health month was observed in October where two major events on ‘Resilience’ were 
carried out through #OneTCS events. 
55 GRI 403-2 
56 GRI 403-2 
57 GRI 403-6

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 160
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
11. Details of safety related incidents58, in the following format:
 
Typical to any service sector company operating out of office-based premises, most common injuries occur due to slips, trips 
and falls or being struck by stationary objects, road accidents in company provided transport. TCS ensures capturing all types 
of incidents including accidents, near-misses and safety observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with 
appropriate corrective and preventive actions.
 
The safety incident statistics is given below – 
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0.0160
0.0032
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees

No. of fatalities
Employees

High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees

12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place59.
 
TCS recognizes that occupational, health and safety (OHS) and overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral 
to its success and growth aspirations as spelled out in its OHS Policy. TCS is committed to provide safe workplaces focusing on 
preventing injuries, illnesses, and continuously strives to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks. 
 
There are no major health and safety (H&S) risks associated with TCS’ services as the company provides customized software 
solutions and IT services. Key workplace safety risks include fire safety in buildings, office safety risks such as slips/ trips/ falls 
and electrical safety (e.g., electric shock) from use of office equipment and road safety risks during commutes in companyprovided vehicles. Key occupational health related risks are associated with workplace ergonomics, indoor air quality, workplace 
illumination and noise. Hazard identification and risk assessment process is conducted to identify each such risk and ensure that 
proper mitigation measures are put in place to create a healthy and safe work environment. 
 
Some of the mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate significant occupational health & safety impacts include,
 
Provision and maintenance of fire detection, alarm and suppression systems.
 
Regular site review, inspections and audits to assess safety preparedness.
 
Regular mock drills for fire as well as medical emergencies.
 
Provision of ergonomically designed chairs and workstations to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s) and low radiation 
computer monitors for better visual health.
 
Digital monitoring of indoor air quality and periodic cleaning of the HVAC ducts to avoid sick building syndrome.
 
Regular training on occupational health & safety training to sensitize employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of 
safety.
 
Employee engagement campaigns on health & safety topics such as fire safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, 
ergonomics among others.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees60:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions

NIL

NIL
Health & Safety
 
Notes: 
 
Human rights related complaints disclosed under Principle 5.
 
The sharp increase in complaints YoY is due to the increase in number of employees working from office in FY 2023.
58 GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 
59 GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 
60 GRI 2-25

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 161
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
14. Assessments for the year61:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties)
Health and safety practices
TCS has 127 locations globally certified as compliant with ISO 45001:2018, OHS Standards. 
100% of TCS offices have been audited during FY 2023 by qualified internal auditors at TCS.
Every year, one third of TCS locations are identified to be sampled for external/ third party 
audits. In FY 2023, 41 offices have undergone ISO 45001:2018 audits by TUV Nord for 
occupational health and safety (external auditor).
99 statutory audits were conducted on health and safety practices (lift, fire, electrical and food 
safety) in FY 2023 for offices in India. There were 13 third party audits conducted on HSE on 
behalf of customers.
Working Conditions
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks 
/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions62.
 
There were a few road/transport, slip, trip and fall related incidents during the year which have been investigated and closed with 
necessary corrective and preventive actions. Defensive driving focus and behavioral based safety practices have been emphasized 
as corrective measures.
Leadership Indicators
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of Employees (Y/N) - Yes
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
 
TCS monitors and tracks the compliance of value chain partners locally and centrally. Every month administration teams at each 
center upload the applicable, verified compliance documents in the company’s compliance tracking system for central monitoring. 
TCS ensures that monthly statutory dues are remitted to respective PF / ESI / LWF etc. authority by the contractors and proof of 
the same is produced to the company on a periodic basis.
Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported 
in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment63:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable Employment
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Employees

Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) - No

GRI 3-3 

GRI 403-10 

GRI 403-9, GRI 3-3

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 162
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Details on assessment of value chain partners64:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
TCS’ supply chain sustainability requirements are integrated with online procurement platform, 
‘Sourcing module’ and ‘Risk module’. TCS’ HSE policies, procedures, guidelines, and Supplier Code 
of Conduct (SCoC) are included in sourcing module in RFP template for digital acceptance by all 
suppliers/ vendors who are considered for evaluation.
Some critical suppliers such as regulated waste disposal services (e-waste, hazardous waste, 
battery wastes), bottled water suppliers, food suppliers for cafeteria and similar suppliers undergo 
legal due diligence and site inspection before initiating the negotiation process. The procurement 
team ensures that SCoC acceptance is done by vendors and all compliances are in place for which 
a tracking system is maintained. 
TCS also conducts periodic audits/review of processes/documents of on-boarded vendors who 
have contractual agreement. 
Working Conditions
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners64.
 
The company conducts regular H&S audits for high-risk vendors such as caterers, transport vendors, and bottled water vendors. 
Any findings during these audits are tracked to closure. For example, if any vehicle provided by a transport vendor is found noncompliant to the TCS safety standards and guidelines, it is immediately removed from the roster. 
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity65.
 
TCS engages with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, to deepen its insights into their needs and expectations, and to develop 
sustainable strategies for the short, medium and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps to manage risks and 
opportunities in business operations. The key stakeholders identified in consultation with the company’s management are: 
customers, employees, shareholders, academic institutions, staffing firms, other suppliers, technology partners and collaborators, 
industry bodies, governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large. 
 
Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages with – such as industry analysts, equity analysts, and the news media –are 
proxies for other named stakeholders – i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively. 
 
Stakeholder interactions might be structured (e.g. surveys, account statements) or unstructured (town halls, 1x1 or group 
meetings). Based on mutual convenience and need, the engagement may be scheduled as needed, or pre-scheduled on a 
periodic basis, or ongoing (e.g. website, social media).
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group66
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other 
Frequency of Engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Customers
As needed: Project-related 
calls and meetings; project 
management reviews; 
relationship meetings and 
reviews; executive meetings 
and briefings; customer 
visits; responses to RFIs/
RFPs; sponsored events; 
mailers; newsletters; 
brochures
Continuous: TCS 
website; social media 
(LinkedIn, Twitter, 
Facebook, Instagram, 
YouTube)
Half-yearly: Customer 
satisfaction surveys
Annual: Customer 
summits; Innovation 
days; Executive customer 
surveys; Sponsored 
Community events
Understanding client, 
industry and business 
challenges
Identifying opportunities to 
improve TCS’ service and 
products for cross-selling 
Deciding on investments 
and capabilities required 
to fulfil demand
Understanding client’s 
data privacy and security 
requirements

GRI 414-2 

GRI 2-29 

GRI 2-29

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 163
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other 
Frequency of Engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Investors and 
Shareholders
As needed: Press releases 
and press conferences; 
email advisories; inperson meetings; investor 
conferences; non-deal 
roadshows; conference calls
Quarterly: Financial 
statements in IndAS 
and IFRS; earnings call; 
exchange notifications; 
press conferences
Continuous: Investors 
page on the TCS 
website
Annual: Annual General 
Meeting; Annual Report
Educating the investor 
community about TCS 
integrated value creation 
model and business 
strategy for the long term
Helping investors voice 
their concerns regarding 
company policies, 
reporting, strategy, etc.
Understanding 
shareholder expectations
Employees
As needed: Town halls; 
roadshows; project or 
operations reviews; 
video conferences; audio 
conference calls; one-on-one 
counselling
Monthly: @TCS (inhouse magazine) 
Continuous: 
TCS website; 
Communication via 
TCS intranet, dipstick 
surveys; grievance 
redressal system, 
OneTCS Newsroom
Annual: PULSE 
(employee feedback 
survey); long-service 
awards; sales meets; 
Blitz (business planning 
meet)
Career Management and 
Growth Prospects
Learning opportunities
Compensation structure
Building a safety culture 
and inculcating safe 
work practices among 
employees
Improving Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion
Partners and 
Collaborators
As needed: Meetings/calls; 
COINTM meetings; visits; 
partner events
Monthly: Conference 
calls
Quarterly: Business 
reviews
Annual: Partner events
Stronger partnerships
Demand Sustainability
Credit worthiness
Ethical Behavior
Fair Business Practices
Governance
Academic 
Institutions
As needed: Academic 
Interface Program; CoInnovation Network (COIN™) 
meetings
Continuous: TCS 
website; academic 
portal
Annual: Sangam 
(high-level academic 
conference); campus 
recruitment
Knowledge-exchange 
collaboration
Advancing the academic’s 
research program / 
curriculum enhancement
Job creation
Internship opportunities
Faculty development
Recruiters; 
staffing firms; 
other suppliers
One-time: RFIs/RFPs; 
empanelment process
As needed: 
Transactional meetings; 
periodic reviews; 
surveys
Continuous: Tata Code 
of Conduct , Supplier 
evaluations
Diversity hiring initiatives 
and what are the biggest 
challenges 
Adaptation of 
procurement processes to 
environmental, economic 
and ethical requirements
Industry bodies, 
Regulators
As needed (need basis / 
usually 1-2 meetings in 3 
months’ basis): 
Conferences and 
seminars,
working committee 
meetings, 
surveys, 
other meetings
Annual: Conferences; 
summits
Ensure 100% compliance 
to all local laws
Cross-industry 
sustainability initiatives 
and knowledge transfer to 
promote sustainability

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 164
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other 
Frequency of Engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Governments; 
NGOs; local 
communities; 
media, industry 
analysts, society 
at large
As needed: Governance 
RFIs/RFPs; presentations; 
project meetings; reviews; 
calls and meetings; surveys; 
consultative sessions; field 
visits; due diligence; calls 
and meetings; conferences 
and seminars; surveys; press 
releases; press conferences; 
media interviews and quotes; 
sponsored events, Analyst 
Days
Continuous: 
 
Annual General 
Meeting, Quarterly 
Reports and Annual 
Report, Earnings 
Conference Call, Media 
interaction, Press 
Releases, TCS website
Understand areas for 
sustainable development 
Communicate TCS’ 
performance and strategy 
Manage TCS’ brand and 
reputation; 
Share and contribute to 
thought leadership and 
insight into public and 
business concerns; 
Discuss TCS’ response 
to responsible business 
issues
Work in partnership to 
develop solutions to global 
challenges
Leadership Indicators
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or 
if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions organization with a presence across multiple geographies, industries, 
services and products. TCS consults stakeholders on material topics and also conducts annual materiality assessments to update
 
the list on an ongoing basis. Stakeholder interactions result in the identification of a broad funnel of issues important to each of 
the constituencies. The Company’s Sustainability Council uses discussions with internal and external stakeholders, as well as its 
own judgment, to prioritize and arrive at a list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social impacts on 
TCS’ business, reputation, and operations. The TCS management shares feedback with the Board on these issues.
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
Yes, TCS’ ESG strategy on material topics uses inputs gathered during stakeholder consultations. 
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
 
All of TCS’ CSR programs are focused on addressing the most pressing issues and meeting the needs of the most vulnerable 
populations across the globe especially women, youth, and marginalized groups. TCS ensures assurance across the organization, 
to operate its business in an ethical, economic, social, and environmentally sustainable manner, while recognizing the needs 
and interests of its critical stakeholders. TCS’ CSR projects evolve in accordance with feedback/concerns received from key 
stakeholders. TCS views feedback from the field – from implementation partners and from the target communities – as 
fundamental to ensure CSR Project success. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the feedback 
which is then duly implemented.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 165
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format67:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Permanent
523,842
519,799
99.2
508,186
504,115
99.2
Other than permanent
2,412
2,396
99.3
2,011
1,982
98.6
Total Employees
526,254
522,195
99.2
510,197
506,097
99.2
 
Note:
 
Data specific to India. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees, in the following format68:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A) Equal to
Minimum Wage
More than
Minimum Wage
Total (D) Equal to
Minimum Wage
More than
Minimum Wage
No.
(B)
% (B /
No.
(C)
% (C /
No.
(E)
% (E/
No.
(F)
% (F/
Permanent
Male
334,827

0.2
334,273
99.8
325,241

0.2
324,515
99.8
Female
189,015

0.3
188,482
99.7
182,945

0.3
182,388
99.7
Other than Permanent
Male
1,256

19.3
1,014
80.7
1,070

10.3

89.7
Female
1,156

28.7

71.3

18.0

82.0
 
Note:
 
Data specific to India.
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format69:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category (₹ Lakh per annum)
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category (₹ Lakh per annum)
Board of Directors (BoD)

280.1

128.9
Key Managerial Personnel

1,463.4
Employees other than BoD and KMP
(a) 
Junior
169,358
3.80 
118,949
3.85
(b) 
Middle
146,469
14.23
66,935
11.62
(c) 
Senior
18,996
35.99
3,131
34.17 
 
Notes:
 
At TCS, remuneration is the same for men and women working full-time, in the same grade, in the same role, and at the 
same location, and with the same level of experience 70. Where relevant, the company publishes the raw mean and median 
pay differences between genders (not normalized for part-timers or grade and role differences) on its own website as well as 
on public sites. Gaps in median salary between genders at middle and senior levels is due to a higher proportion of women 
at the junior ends of each cohort. TCS’ focused diversity and inclusion programs are expected to narrow this gap over time.

GRI 2-24 

GRI 405-2 

GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21 

GRI 202-1, GRI 405-2

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 166
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Data is specific to India.
 
The median remuneration of Non-Executive, Non-Independent Directors is Nil (refer serial no. III(iv)(a) of the Corporate 
Governance Report) 
 
Key Managerial Personnel include CEO, COO, CFO and Company Secretary. 
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business71? (Yes/No) - Yes
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues72.
 
Reporting avenues have been provided for TCS’ employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to raise concerns or 
make disclosures when they become aware of any actual or potential violation of the Company Code, policies or law including 
human rights violations. the Employees can use the “Employee Concerns” application to log their grievances in TCS internal 
portal, which is addressed by the respective stakeholders within the stipulated timelines. Non-permanent employees can 
raise the grievances via email to the concerned stakeholders. Additionally, anybody can make protected disclosures under the 
company’s Whistle Blower policy. Representations made in the reporting avenues are reviewed and appropriate action is taken on 
substantiated violations. 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees73:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment

Review in 
progress

Review in 
progress
Discrimination at 
workplace

Closed

Closed
Child Labour

NIL
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour

NIL
Wages

NIL
Other human rights 
related issues

NIL
 
Note:
 
Data specific to India 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases74.
 
Concerns on discrimination and harassment are dealt with confidentially. TCS does not tolerate any form of retaliation against 
anyone reporting good faith concerns. Anyone involved in targeting such a person raising such complaints will be subject to 
disciplinary action.
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)75 Yes 

GRI 2-13 

GRI 2-25 

GRI 406-1 

GRI 2-25 

GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 167
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Assessments for the year:
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Child labour
TCS internally monitors compliance for all relevant laws and policies 
pertaining to these issues at 100% of its offices. There have been no 
observations by local statutory / third parties in India in FY 2023.
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
 
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
 
Human rights are protected and upheld in TCS’ core value of ‘Respect for the individual’ and enshrined in the TCoC that guides 
how TCS conducts itself in every community that it operates in. TCS has relevant in-house policies and procedures to reinforce 
human rights, resulting in an impeccable track record of never facing any human rights grievances or complaints. Further, TCS 
continually gathers feedback and keeps track of developments in the regulatory area to further strengthen existing processes.
Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
 
TCS adopts a zero-tolerance approach to issues related to human rights. TCS follows all government regulations and regulatory 
policies and comply to global and local laws in the countries where the company operates and complies to all applicable global 
and local laws including collective bargaining agreements through its policies and standards. While empaneling suppliers, the 
company carries out extensive due diligence on various ESG areas, including human rights. 
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
Yes. TCS believes in accessibility for all.
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Sexual Harassment
All value chain partners are expected to adhere to the TCoC, which does not 
tolerate any form of harassment, whether sexual, physical, verbal or psychological. 
However, TCS does not conduct any formal assessment for the same.
Discrimination at workplace
100% of value chain partners were assessed.
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
Not Applicable
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
 
There were no significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 168
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format76:
 
Much of the electricity that TCS uses comes from the grid but over the years, TCS has increased the share of renewable electricity 
(RE) through onsite rooftop solar generation, procurement from third party producers and purchase of Energy Attribute 
Certificate (EAC) in certain countries. The RE consumption as a % of total energy consumption has increased from 37.2% in FY 
2022 to 55.2% in FY 2023. Electricity consumption across TCS operations increased by 33.3% y-o-y due to increased resumption of 
operations (compared to FY 2022) and inclusion of additional offices. 
 
Other sources of energy include natural gas (mainly used for space heating/cooling), district heating and cooling, fuel used in 
company owned vehicles, cooking gas used in cafeteria and diesel used in diesel generators (mainly used as a back-up source for 
power shortages). 
 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity are provided below:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
830,388,643
401,662,127
Total fuel consumption (B)
NIL
NIL
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
154,994
8,482,654
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
830,543,637
410,144,781
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
602,410,331
672,917,518
Total fuel consumption (E)77
72,062,111
41,303,253 
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NIL
NIL
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
674,472,442
714,220,770
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/turnover in rupees)
0.0007
0.0006
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
 
Not Applicable to TCS.
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water78, in the following format:
 
The sources of freshwater at TCS include third party water (90%), groundwater (7.6%) and rainwater harvested (2.5%). TCS 
optimizes water consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and rainwater harvesting. All new campuses 
have been designed for higher water efficiencies, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting. The detailed 
break up is given below.
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Surface water
Nil
Nil
(ii) 
Groundwater
173,539
121,756
(iii) Third party water
2,058,419
1,243,889
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
Nil
Nil

GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3, TC-SI-130a.1. 

There was a marginal change of 0.4% in fuel consumption data reported in FY 2022, which has now been corrected in the table above. 

GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5, TC-SI-130a.2.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 169
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(v) 
Others – Rainwater utilized
56,730
75,314
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
2,288,688
1,440,959
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
2,082,781
1,319,696
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
0.0000009
0.0000007
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation79.
 
Yes, TCS has achieved zero liquid discharge across all the campuses. TCS optimizes water consumption through conservation, 
sewage treatment and reuse, and rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for 100% treatment and recycling 
of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
 
TCS being an IT consulting services and business solutions company does not have significant air emissions other than those 
arising from the operation of diesel generator sets during power outages. 
 
TCS’ operations in India have necessary consent under the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act (1981), for operation of 
DG sets and ensures compliance to the conditions which includes stack emission parameters like nitrous oxide, non-methane 
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, etc. Stack emission monitoring is conducted as per the frequency required 
under the Consent To Operate (CTO) the generator sets.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
The DG stack emissions are sampled and analyzed by government approved laboratories and the reports are reviewed by the 
internal team to ensure compliance to the CTO conditions. These stack emission reports are submitted to government authorities 
(State Pollution Control Boards) as per consent conditions. These reports are also verified during internal and external audits to 
check compliance.
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format80:
 
The Scope 1 emissions are from direct GHG sources like fuel used in company owned vehicles, diesel generators & cafeteria, 
fugitive emissions from refrigerants and fuel used for space heating. Scope 1 accounts to about 15.2% of the Scope 1 + Scope 2 
carbon footprint in FY 2023. The remaining 84.8% are from indirect emissions, referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with 
purchased electricity. The breakup is provided as required in the table below.

GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2 

GRI 305-1; GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4. Scope 1 emissions have been calculated using the emissions factors published by the DEFRA conversion factors 
2022. For Scope 2 emissions – for India, the source is the emission factor is the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, User Guide, 
Version 18.0, December 2022, published by the Central Electricity Authority of India. For Australia, Canada, North America, and UK emission 
factors specific to the region published by local authorities are used. For other countries IEA v4 emission factors 2022 and GHG protocol/ IEA 2022 
have been used.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 170
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-2381
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2
20,972
16,68482
- CO2
tCO2e
4,780
2,813
- CH4
tCO2e
2.73
1.38
- N20
tCO2e
39.8
28.3
- HFC
tCO2e
16,150
13,841
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
117,265
 141,045
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of
Turnover
tCO2e/Million 
INR
0.05
0.08
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details83.
 
Yes. TCS had set a target to reduce its absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 70% by 2025 and become net zero by 2030. 
The first part was achieved in FY 2023 through a combination of green infrastructure, green IT, energy efficiency and renewable 
energy. 
 
Commitment to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
 
In June 2022, TCS has responded to SBTi’s urgent call for corporate climate action by committing to align with 1.5°C and net-zero 
through the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. This is published on SBTi website and can be viewed at Companies taking 
action - Science Based Targets. TCS is working on the next steps to developing company targets for validation by SBTi.
 
Green Infrastructure and IT enabled operational efficiency:
 
All new campuses owned by TCS are designed according to green building standards for energy and resource efficiency. They have 
roof-top solar photovoltaic installations to reduce the carbon footprint. Currently, 36 TCS offices, with over 23.68 million sq. ft 
of office area, are certified green buildings by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These make up over 64.6% of TCS’ total real 
estate portfolio in India.
 
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included energy efficiencies in HVAC systems, Uninterrupted Power Supply 
(UPS), LEDs, motors, and chillers. 
 
HVAC system upgradation included deployment of energy efficient fans for Air handling units (AHUs), Variable Refrigerant 
Flow (VRF) systems for 24X7 on variable load, oilless centrifugal chillers like magnetic or ceramic bearing chillers and chiller 
plant manager. 
 
Energy efficient UPS included Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBT) based UPS with high efficiency and modular UPS.
 
Other energy efficiency initiatives included LED lighting with advanced controls, EFF1/IE3 rated high efficiency motors, 11KV 
power distribution from sub-station to different buildings, use of 11 kV centrifugal chillers and elevators with energy efficient 
and gearless motors. 

There are some inclusions and modifications in estimating carbon emissions during FY 2023 when compared to FY 2022. 
 
Scope 2 emissions: The emission factors for the grid electricity across various geographies have been taken primarily from IEA v5-IEA 2022 
(12/2022) database except for US, Canada, Australia, and India where emission factors are available from regional sources. For India geography, 
the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), user guide 18.0, Dec 2022 emission factor of 0.715 tCO2/ MWh (carbon emission factor of grid 
electricity, including RE) has been considered for estimating the carbon emissions from procured electricity in FY 2023. Over the years CEA has 
been publishing the weighted average carbon emission factor (conventional) of the grid which was being used by TCS for Scope 2 emissions 
until FY 2022 as emission factors (including RE) was not available earlier. However, in Dec 2022, CEA published the carbon emission factor of 
grid electricity (including RE) for the first time for years 2013-14 to 2021-22. As TCS procures electricity from the India grid, which is mix of 
conventional and renewable energy, the emission factor of 0.715 tCO2/ MWh is considered more appropriate.

Corrected Scope 1 emissions data for FY 2022 due to minor changes in fuel consumption data. 

GRI 305-5, TC-SI-130a.3. TCFD - Metrics and Targets B

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 171
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Green IT:
 
Initiatives in green IT focused on data center and IT device consolidation and optimization to reduce the carbon footprint. The 
areas covered under green IT initiatives include IT energy optimization in data center and equipment rooms. In addition, green 
attributes are considered in every asset procurement. TCS’ data centers have a weighted average PUE of 1.66. 
 
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever Energy™)84 initiative involves real time monitoring to optimize 
the operational energy efficiency across all offices. The smart, scalable, analytics driven IoT solution uses TCS Connected Universe 
Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone enabling visualization of data acquired from various locations and 
facilities’ energy meters and sensors. 
 
Renewable Energy:
 
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3.4% of total electricity use in 
FY 2023. The company increased its renewable energy procurement through a) switch over to green tariffs for its operations in 
Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Indore, Bhubaneshwar, Pune, and Thane, b) 1 MWp open access power purchase agreements (PPA) signed 
at Siruseri (as an extension to the previous 12 MWp PPA). The renewable energy procurement has resulted in an increase in 
renewable energy use to 55.2% of total energy use.
 
Carbon Neutrality:
 
The company became carbon neutral across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in North America, UK and Ireland (except Diligenta), 
Europe, Asia Pacific (excluding Japan), Latin America, and Middle East & Africa in FY 2023.
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format85:
Parameter
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
46.7
42.9
E-waste (B)

Bio-medical waste (C)
0.83
1.61
Construction and demolition waste (D)
194,973
62.4
Battery waste (E)

Radioactive waste (F)
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
26.1
27.6
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
3,538
2,351
 
Quantity of office paper [t]

41.5
 
Quantity of Newspaper / Magazine [t]
3.8
2.3
 
Quantity of packaging material waste[t]

151.2
 
Quantity of Restroom waste generated [t]

Quantity of Cafeteria dry waste generated [t]

Quantity of Other mixed waste generated [t]

315.2
 
Other office scrap waste generated [t]

217.2
 
Garden waste generated [t]
1,261
1,330
 
Total food waste generated [t]

81.9
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
199,386
3,384.5
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, reusing or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled **
- Battery

-E-waste

-Hazardous waste

-Non-Hazardous waste
1,685
1,077

TCFD Metrics and Targets A 

GRI 306-3; 306-4; 306-5

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 172
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
-Plastic Waste

-Construction & Demolition waste
61.6
(ii) Re-used
194,316
(iii) Other recovery operations
Total
196,918
2,044.6
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
- Biomedical waste
0.8
1.6
- Non-hazardous waste
61.7
36.4
(ii) Landfilling
- Non-hazardous waste
1,612
1,112
- Construction & demolition waste

(iii) Other disposal operations
Total
2,193.5
1,150
 
** 100% of the regulated waste (hazardous wastes, e-waste, battery waste), plastic wastes, paper & packaging wastes are 
disposed through recycling. The generated quantities, if remaining at the end of the financial year for disposal, are stored at the 
facilities and recycled through approved/ authorized vendors. 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.86
 
Not applicable. TCS does not manufacture anything and therefore does not use any hazardous or toxic chemicals in its processes. 
10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / 
clearances are required, please specify details in the following format87:
 
Yes, TCS has its office in Kalinga Park, Bhubaneswar, Odisha which is located near Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary. TCS office is 
located in the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) developed by the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO). All 
necessary environmental clearances have been obtained for the campus.
No.
Location of operations/offices
Type of
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval 
/ clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.

TCS Kalinga Park, Chandaka Industrial 
Estate, Bhubanewar, Odisha
Software Consultancy 
Services 
Yes, the conditions of Environmental Clearance have 
been complied with.

GRI 306-2; GRI 3-3 

GRI 304-1 

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 173
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year88:
Name and brief details of project EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/ No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes / 
No)
Relevant Web link
Expansion of TCS Noida ITSEZ 
Campus, Uttar Pradesh.
 EC23B039UP128426
January 
12, 

Yes
Yes
https://www.tcs.com/
investor-relations/
environmental-impactassessments-details
Proposed Expansion at, Rajarhat 
Kolkata, West Bengal.
EC22B039WB170289
May 13, 

Yes
Yes
12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format89:
 
Yes, TCS has complied with applicable environmental law/regulations / guidelines applicable in India. No fine/penalty/action was 
initiated against the entity under any of the applicable environmental laws/regulation/guidelines.
S. No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the noncompliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators 
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the 
following format:
 
This information has been covered in Principle 6, Q1 of the Essential Indicators90.
Provide the following details related to water discharged91:
Parameter
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 
To Surface water
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

(ii) 
To Groundwater
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

(iii) To Seawater
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

(iv) Sent to third-parties
 
No treatment
 
 
Note: Wastewater sent for municipal treatment
92,510
19,216
 
Tertiary treatment
67,180
86,073

GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1 

GRI 2-27 

GRI 302-1 

GRI 303-4

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 174
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Parameter
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
(v) 
Others
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
159,690
105,289
 
Note: This data pertains to India only.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information92:
 
(i) 
Name of the area: Data provided for 12 areas as per CGWB in individual tabs
 
(ii) Nature of operations: Software and IT operations
 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Surface water

(ii) 
Groundwater
43,320

(iii) Third party water
505,970
531,427
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water

(v) 
Others (Rain water)

Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
549,900
531,427
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
526,730
520,733
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
0.00000023
0.00000027
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i) 
Into Surface water
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

(ii) 
Into Groundwater
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

(iii) Into Seawater
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

(iv) Sent to third-parties
 
No treatment
 
 
Note: Wastewater sent for municipal treatment
20,150
7,622
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 
 
Note: Tertiary treatment
3,020
3,071

GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4, TC-SI-130a.2

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 175
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(v) 
Others
 
No treatment

With treatment – please specify level of treatment

Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
23,170
10,693
 
 
Note:
 
 
This data pertains to India only.
 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format93:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22 
Total Scope 3 emissions94 (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
366,606
358,453
Category 1 – Purchased goods & services 
tCO2e
2,515
12,020
Category 2 – Capital goods 
tCO2e
18,549
111,290
Category 3 Fuel and energy related activities (not included in Scope 
1 or 2) 
tCO2e
32,094
52,415
Category 4 – Upstream transportation and distribution 
tCO2e
5,107
7,542
Category 5 – Waste generated in operations 
tCO2e
1,070

Category 6 – Business travel 
tCO2e
89,907
35,043
Category 7 – Employee commuting
(Work from home (WFH) emission is included in this category as per 
GHG protocol since both are pandemic years)
tCO2e
217,364
139,504
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e/INR
0.00000016
0.00000019
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).

GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4; There are some inclusions and modifications in estimating scope 3 carbon emissions during FY 2023 when compared to FY 
2022.

Scope 3 emissions:
Category 1 & 2: Emission factors (spend based) for purchased and capital goods are taken from the latest available US EPA (Supply Chain GHG 
Emission Factors for US Commodities and Industries v1.1.1) information for computer equipment, electrical equipment, office equipment, 
vehicles, and furniture items. Until FY 2022, TCS used the DEFRA 2012, spend based emission factors, which are outdated. In view of adopting 
updated emission factors, there was a reduction in category 1 by 89% and category 2 by 82%. 
Category 3: The well to tank (WTT) emissions from the fuel used in stationary and mobile combustion such as diesel in DG sets and owned 
vehicles, LPG or PNG in cafeteria, natural gas for space heating/ cooling, fuel used in hired vehicles (cabs/ buses) are included in this category in 
FY 2023. Earlier in FY 2022, only WTT of electricity procured was considered. The increase in scope of reporting contributes to 3.5% of the total 
emissions under category 3.
Category 4: Until FY 2022, TCS had included only emissions from transportation of IT assets considering its relative significance compared to 
other supplies. In FY 2023, TCS has also included emissions related to non-IT supplies and waste disposal. The supplies include cafeteria/ canteen 
supplies, water supplies through tankers, housekeeping material and other stationary supplies and disposal of wastes (e-wastes, hazardous 
wastes, batteries etc.,). Emission factors are taken from DEFRA 2022 for the transport emissions based on vehicle type and weight. The increase in 
scope of reporting contributes to 31% of the total emissions under category 4.
Category 5: No change in approach in FY 2023. The emissions are based on disposal mechanisms (e.g., recycling, reuse, landfill) for different categories of 
waste (plastic, metal, e-waste, batteries, food waste, garden waste etc.,) and have been computed based on emission factors from DEFRA 2022. 
Category 6: In FY 2022, business travel included emissions from air and rail. In FY 2023, business travel emissions also include hotel stays at 
various geographies during business travel. Relevant emission factors are taken from DEFRA 2022. The increase in scope of reporting contributes 
to 0.5% of the total emissions under category 6.
Category 7: In FY 2023, the employee commute related carbon emission includes those from TCS hired vehicles for transport of employees 
(global), personal employee commute (only India), public employee commute (only India) and work from home (WFH) emissions (global). In prepandemic period, TCS had considered and included private and public commute of India employees in carbon emissions, however during FY 2021 
and FY 2022, this was insignificant to be included under this category. The occupancy in overseas offices has been minimum during FY 2023 due 
to majority of the associates working from home and therefore considered insignificant, and not included in the emissions.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 176
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities95.
Sr. 
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative 
(Web-link, if any, may 
be provided along-with 
summary)
Outcome of the initiative

Chandaka Wildlife sanctuary authority 
has developed the trench followed by 5 
feet wall with fencing along the border 
of the sanctuary so that the possibility of 
elephants crossing the trench is eliminated 
hence, any impact of TCS operations on 
wildlife is not expected. However, TCS has 
undertaken following initiatives:
Minimizing light pollution around the 
wildlife sanctuary 
Internal initiatives within its campus 
towards biodiversity conservation 
and enhancement
Internal initiatives towards water and 
waste management
Installation of inward 
facing low intensity 
peripheral lights
Plantation of native/ 
indigenous plants, 
medicinal and spice 
garden, butterfly 
garden
Provision of organic 
waste technologies - 
Vermicomposting and 
organic waste converter 
Provision of rainwater 
harvesting structure 
and sewage treatment 
plant (STP)
Inward direction peripheral lights of low 
intensity to avoid any impact on wildlife 
movement. High mast lights in TCS 
parking area are switched off after 11 
pm.
Protection of native/medicinal, plant 
species as well as butterfly species.
Garden and food waste vermicomposting 
and organic waste composting 
technology has been installed to 
generate organic manure and it is reused 
for landscaping. 
100% treatment and recycling of 
wastewater inside the premises.
Groundwater recharging pits for 
enriching the water table.
 
As a proactive initiative, TCS has included ‘Urban Biodiversity’ conservation as an integral part of TCS Environmental Sustainability 
Policy and its long-term plan for sustainable development. Biodiversity action plan is implemented across 18 TCS campuses in 
India to conserve and enhance urban biodiversity. Biodiversity mapping for various flora and fauna species is conducted on an 
annual basis. TCS campuses across India are home to over 590+ flora species and 180+ fauna species. 10 species of IUCN category 
trees i.e., Endemic, Endangered, Threatened, Vulnerable and Rare species, are protected within TCS campuses.
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as 
outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative

HVAC energy efficiency projects
Energy efficient fans driven AHU’s
VRF systems for 24x7 systems on variable load
Oilless Centrifugal Chillers like Magnetic or Ceramic 
Bearing chillers
Chiller plant manager
505,266 kWh energy 
savings

UPS based energy efficiency 
projects
IGBT based UPS with high efficiency and Modular 
UPS
333,448kWh energy 
savings

Energy Monitoring and Analytics 
(Clever Energy + Resource 
Optimization Center)96
Chiller Optimization
AHU Optimization
AC Schedule Change
Elimination of energy wastage in the non-peak 
hour operations
3.38 Mn kWh energy 
savings
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
The business continuity and disaster management function in TCS supports the strategic objective of the organization, protects 
business interest, and proactively strengthens the organization’s ability to effectively respond to internal and external threats and 
enable seamless, continued delivery of critical business operations, in the event of any disruption. The end-to-end framework is 
effectively managed through defined policy, procedures, guidelines and through in-house developed tools that support planning 
and communication with all stakeholders. The framework is fully compliant and certified to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is 
integrated with TCS quality management system for consistent deployment across the organization. 

GRI 304-2; GRI 304-3 

TCFD Metrics and Targets A

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 177
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
TCS has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan 
outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be taken, evacuation procedures and post 
incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario. 
 
Every customer relationship, region (branch), global delivery center and corporate IS function maintains a BCP plan that is 
updated once in six months or on a need basis. The framework ensures that respective owners consider all contractual/ 
regulatory requirements, scope of services, demographics of operations, interdependencies of services and underlying assets, 
identifies business impact of loss/ interruption or disruption, and determines appropriate continuity strategy for the same. The 
associated potential risks are identified, assessed and appropriate response is devised to handle respective risks.
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard97.
 
No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts98.
 
TCS assesses 100% of its suppliers’ environmental footprint at the time of their respective empanelment. Towards ongoing 
sustainability assessment, TCS launched its Supplier Sustainability Assessment Platform and initiated on-boarding of its top supply 
chain partners in FY 2023. Through this platform, TCS plans to support its suppliers with engagement and guidance to help them 
improve their sustainability performance. 
 
During FY 2023, TCS has also implemented system-enabled database checks and risk profiling of its top 80% suppliers (by 
spend) across sectors and geographies. Of the top 80% suppliers by spend, 20% suppliers have already completed sustainability 
assessment for environment criteria.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible 
and transparent
Essential Indicators
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations99
 
 
9 in India, and 3 outside India. TCS works with various leading trade bodies/ industry chambers/ associations in India. In 
addition, TCS collaborates with bilateral/ multilateral international chambers, based out of India, on multiple technology and 
trade related matters. 
 
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to100
Sr. No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations
(State/National)

National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM)
National

Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National

Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National

Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) 
National

Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI) 
National

The Information Technology Industry Council
International

BitKom
International

Indo American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)
National

Whitehall and Industry Group
International

British Business Promotion Association 
International
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable

GRI 308-2 

GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 

GRI 2-28 

GRI 2-28

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 178
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Leadership Indicators 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available 
in public 
domain? 
(Yes/No)
Frequency of 
Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available
Special Economic 
Zones (SEZ) reforms 
introduced by GOI: 
Recommendations 
for inclusion of hybrid 
working, ease of 
compliances and 
reporting in SEZs
Industry meetings with Ministry of 
Electronics and Information and 
Technology (MeitY), Department of 
Commerce, Ministry of Finance (MoF).
Participation in round tables 
discussions and consultations 
organized by industry associations 
such as CII, FICCI, NASSCOM.
Recommendations submitted to 
relevant government departments, 
trade associations on request.
Yes
As and when 
required.
https://www.tcs.
com/investorrelations/publicpolicy-positionsdetails
GOI’s endeavor to 
facilitate Free Trade 
Agreements (FTAs) 
to leverage India’s 
ability to be a key 
trading partner: 
Engagements and 
recommendations 
highlighting potential 
for the services sector 
arising out of FTAs
Multiple engagements with 
governments to share concerns over 
totalization, mobility of resources, 
amongst other challenges. 
Shared inputs as a part of industry 
representations with relevant 
government departmentsDepartment of Commerce, and 
industry bodies such as CII, FICCI, 
NASSCOM, highlighting challenges 
related to non-tariff barriers (NTBs), 
mobility of STEM talent and other 
issues related to taxation.
Partially
As and when 
required.
Promoting trade in 
goods and services: 
Recommendations on 
India’s Foreign Trade 
Policy (FTP) (released 
on 31st March 2023) 
by the Ministry of 
Commerce, GOI
Engaged through the Board of 
Trade wherein Rajesh Gopinathan, 
CEO and MD was appointed as 
a non-official member by the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Provided the Ministry with regular 
inputs and recommendations on 
the sectoral opportunities for India.
Yes
As and when 
required.
Data regulation 
policies by the GOI: 
Recommendations on 
the Digital Personal 
Data Protection Bill 
(DPDPB), 2022
Participated in the consultation 
process facilitated by MeitY.
Submitted recommendations on 
applicability, definitions amongst 
other recommendations.
Yes
As and when 
required.
Ongoing 
engagements 
on policies and 
regulations under 
consideration by 
Government of India 
and maybe important 
for the technology 
sector, namely: 
Telecom- 5G 
Digital India Act
National Data 
Governance 
Policy 
DESH Bill - 
Cybersecurity
Engaging with multiple Ministries 
and relevant working committees.
Participated in policy discussions, 
consultations, round-tables and/or 
expert meetings to share insights 
on critical upcoming policies 
and regulations such as- Draft 
Telecommunications Bill, Proposed 
Digital India Act, National Data 
Governance Policy, Draft DESH 
Bill and on topical issues such as 
cybersecurity.
Yes
As and when 
required.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 179
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year101. 
Name and brief details of project
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant web link
BridgeIT program, Development Focus, 
Bangalore
Yes
Yes
https://on.tcs.com/BridgeIT-2023
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
 
Not applicable for TCS.
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community102.
 
All agreements between TCS and the stakeholders, contain clauses on handling of grievances, disputes etc. Additionally, 
TCS Regional Leaders are connected at the ground level and provide feedback for implementation if any. Post program 
implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the feedback which is duly implemented.
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers103:
 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers
12.9%
8.4%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts
91.6%
91.0%
Leadership Indicators
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
 
Not applicable for TCS.

GRI 413-1 

GRI 2-25, GRI 413-1 

GRI 204-1

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 180
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies:
Sr. No. Program
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent 
(in ` crore)

Youth 
Employment 
Program 
Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands, Andhra 
Pradesh, Arunachal 
Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, 
Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu, Delhi, 
Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu & Kashmir, 
Jharkhand, Karnataka, 
Kerala, Ladakh, 
Lakshadweep, Madhya 
Pradesh, Maharashtra, 
Manipur, Meghalaya, 
Mizoram, Nagaland, 
Odisha, Puducherry, 
Punjab, Rajasthan, 
Tamil Nadu, Telangana, 
Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, 
Uttarakhand and West 
Bengal
Agra, Alwar, Anuppur, Araria, Aurangabad, Bahraich, 
Balangir, Ballia, Balrampur, Banas kantha, Banka, Bankura, 
BaraBanki, Baramula, Bareilly, Bastar, Basti, Belgaum, 
Bellary, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Bhagalpur, Bharatpur, 
Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Bhojpur, Beed, Birbhum, Chamba, 
Chandauli, Chhindwara, Chitradurga, Cuddalore, Dakshin, 
Darbhanga, Darrang, Deoghar, Deoria, Dewas, Dhalai, 
Dhanbad, Dhenkanal, Dhule, Dohad, Dumka, Dungarpur, 
East Champaran, East Khasi Hills, Faizabad, Fatehpur, 
Firozpur, Gadchiroli, Gajapati, Garhchiroli, Gaya, Goalpara, 
Gonda, Gopalganj, Hardoi, Haridwar, Hazaribagh, Jabalpur, 
Jalgaon, Jalpaiguri, Jamtara, Jashpur Kamrup, Metropolitan, 
Kandhamal, Kannur, Karaikal, Kendujhar, Kheda, Cooch 
Behar, Kokrajhar, Kupwara, Kurnool, Lakshadweep, 
Madhubani, Malappuram, Malkangiri, Mau Mayurbhanj, 
Meerut, Moradabad, Murshidabad, Muzaffarpur, Nagaon, 
Nagapattinam, Nalanda, Nalgonda, Nandurbar, Nizamabad, 
North Tripura, Osmanabad, Palakkad, Panchmahal, Paschim 
Bardhaman, Pashchimi Singhbhum, Patna, Prakasam, 
Pratapgarh, Purba Bardhaman, Purnia, Puruliya, Rae Bareli, 
Raichur, Raigarh, Raipur Rajnandgaon, Ramgarh, Ranchi, 
Rewa, Ri Bhoi, Rohtas, Sabarkantha, Sagar, Sahibganj, Salem, 
Saraikela-Kharsawan, Satna, Seoni, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur, 
Sonbhadra, South 24 Parganas, Surguja, Tirunelveli, Tirupur, 
Tiruvannamalai, Tumakuru, Udham Singh Nagar, Ujjain, 
Unnao, Vadodara, Vaishali, Valsad, Vidisha, Viluppuram, 
Virudhunagar, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Wayanad, 
West Nimar, YSR Kadapa, Yadgir, Yavatmal
7.63

BridgeIT
Mizoram, Karnataka, 
Odisha, Jharkhand
Aizawl, Raichur, Raichur, Yadgir, Gajapati, Rayagada, 
Lohardaga and Latehar
1.46

LaaS
Bihar, Chandigarh, 
Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya 
Pradesh, Maharashtra, 
Odisha, Punjab, 
Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, 
West Bengal
Bhavnagar, Indore, Ujjain, Dhar, Jhabua, West Nimar, Dahod, 
Alirajpur, Seoni, Palghar, Barwani, Guna, Rajgarh, Damoh, 
Chhatarpur, Singrauli, Mandla, Anuppur, Balaghat, Betul, 
Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Dewas, Dindori, Gwalior, Jabalpur, 
Katni, Morena, Raisen, Ratlam, Rewa, Sagar, Satna, Shahdol, 
Shivpuri, Sidhi, Umaria, Vidisha
0.92

goIT
Kerala, Gujarat, 
Maharashtra, Andhra 
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, 
Telangana, Karnataka, 
Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, 
Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, 
West Bengal, Ladakh
Yavatmal, Dhule, Palnadu District, Vadodara, Palakkad, 
Visakhapatnam, Dhenkanal, Kendujhar
0.60

Ignite My 
Future
Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West 
Bengal, Puducherry, 
Karnataka, Maharashtra, 
Uttar Pradesh, Ladakh, 
Andhra Pradesh, 
Manipur, Rajasthan, 
Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, 
Gujarat, Madhya 
Pradesh, Odisha, 
Jharkhand
Bankura, South 24 Parganas, Tumakuru, Ayodhya, 
Meerut, Raebareli, Sultanpur, Visakhapatnam, Palakkad, 
Virudhunagar, Bankura, North 24 Parganas, Virudhunagar
0.59
 
Note:
 
The amount mentioned above is for the entire program across all districts (not only the aspirational ones).

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 181
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
 
While procuring goods/services from MSME vendors, TCS treats MSME vendors at par with non MSME vendors. However, 
TCS follows more preferential payment norms for MSME vendors. 
 
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
Please refer to the above answer
 
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
Please refer to answer for Q.4 in Principle 8, Essential indicators
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr.No.
Intellectual Property based on traditonal 
knowledge
Owned / Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes/
No)
Basis of calculating 
Benefit share
Not Applicable
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Sr.No. CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefited from CSR 
projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups

Literacy as a Service (LaaS) 
1,328,976
60%

BridgeIT
 319,547 
77%

Youth Employment Program
 31,155 
17%

goIT
 41,971 
77%

Ignite My Future
 293,697 
70%
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback104.

mechanisms to report complaints or feedback. 
 
Each customer concern is addressed with utmost care at all levels. TCS teams acknowledge, analyze the incidents and develop an 
action plan to resolve it. The team engages with the customer, to validate the action plan and regularly updates customers about 
the progress of action taken. 
 
TCS has a structured approach to receive feedback from customers periodically. Such feedback is analyzed for improvements and 
action plans are implemented to ensure utmost customer satisfaction.
 
For privacy specific complaints, they can also raise incidents with TCS’ Data Protection or Privacy Officers. The contact details of 
the data protection and privacy officers is available in TCS website at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy or as otherwise notified 
to the customers from time to time.
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
 
Not Applicable

GRI 2-25

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 182
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
 
FY 2022-23
Remarks
FY 2021-22 
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy

TCS treats 
Customers as 
consumers. These 
complaints pertain 
to accidental 
data sharing 
with unintended 
recipients 

TCS treats 
Customers as 
consumers. These 
complaints pertain 
to accidental 
data sharing 
with unintended 
recipients
Advertising
Cyber-security
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
Delivery of essential services
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
Restrictive Trade Practices
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
Unfair Trade Practices
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
 NIL
NIL
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Not applicable.
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy105.
 
TCS has information security policy which covers for cybersecurity and is approved by top management. 
 
TCS has deployed cybersecurity framework which is aligned with NIST CSF106.
 
TCS’ commitment to privacy is espoused in the company’s Global Privacy Policy. This is accessible from TCS website.
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by 
regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
Please refer to the answer to Q.5 above. All the initiatives explained above has ensured that TCS did not have any incidents 
leading to regulatory issues / penalties.
Leadership Indicators
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
 
www.tcs.com
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
 
Not applicable, as TCS does not have any products/services that can entail safety issues or a usage abuse.
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
Each customer relationship in TCS has a business continuity mechanism to handle any disruption of services/products and a 
suitable communication plan.
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not 
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to 
the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
 
Not Applicable
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: As a data fiduciary, TCS has not had any data breach incidents in 
FY 2023. 
 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: 0%

GRI 2-23 

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) CSF is Cybersecurity framework published by NIST (Standards Institute in USA) which 
enables organization to improve Cybersecurity for its critical infrastructure.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 183
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as the 
Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which 
comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2023, 
and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including 
other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of 
changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for 
the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred 
to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give 
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group as at 31 March 2023, of its consolidated profit and 
other comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
Consolidated 
Financial Statements 
of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of 
the Act, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit 
evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matter(s)
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts where revenue is recognized using percentage of completion method
See Note 5(a) and Note 12 to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price contracts, 
wherein, revenue is recognized using the percentage 
of completion computed as per the input method 
based on the Group’s estimate of contract costs.
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price 
contracts where the percentage of completion is 
used as a key audit matter since -
there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud 
risk around the accuracy and existence of 
revenues recognised considering the customised 
and complex nature of these contracts and 
significant inputs of IT systems;
Our audit procedures included the following:
Obtained an understanding of the systems, processes and controls 
implemented by the Group for recording and computing revenue 
and the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue 
balances.
Involvement of our Information technology (‘IT’) specialists, as 
required:
 
Assessed the IT environment in which the business systems 
operate and tested system controls over computation of revenue 
recognised;
 
Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of cost and revenue 
reports generated by the system;

Consolidated Financial Statements | 184
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
application of revenue recognition accounting 
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with customers) is complex and involves a 
number of key judgments and estimates in 
mainly identifying performance obligations, 
related transaction price and estimating the 
future cost-to- completion of these contracts, 
which is used to determine the percentage 
of completion of the relevant performance 
obligation;
these contracts may involve onerous obligations 
which requires critical assessment of 
foreseeable losses to be made by the Group; 
and
at year-end, significant amount of work in 
progress (Contract assets), related to these 
contracts are recognised on the balance sheet.
 
Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and 
budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/
changes to costs incurred; and
 
Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the 
estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective 
projects.
On selected specific and statistical samples of contracts, we tested that 
the revenue recognized is in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard including –
 
Evaluated the identification of performance obligations and the 
ascribed transaction price;
 
For testing the Group’s computation of the estimation of contract 
costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
 
 
assessed that the estimates of costs to complete were 
reviewed and approved by appropriate designated 
management personnel;
 
 
performed a retrospective analysis of costs incurred 
with estimated costs to identify significant variations and 
challenged whether those variations are required to be 
considered in estimating the remaining costs to complete the 
contract;
 
 
assessed the appropriateness of work in progress (contract 
assets) on balance sheet date by evaluating the underlying 
documentation to identify possible changes in estimated 
costs to complete the remaining performance obligations; 
and
 
 
inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to 
determine reasonableness of contract costs.
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s 
Annual report, but does not include the financial statements 
and auditor’s reports thereon. The Holding Company’s Annual 
report is expected to be made available to us after the date of 
this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated financial statements in term of the requirements 
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state 
of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other comprehensive 
income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. The respective Management and 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
the assets of each company and for preventing and detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application 
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Management and 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for assessing 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 185
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board 
of Directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of consolidated financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other companies included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
 
 
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements.
 
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 186
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books.
 
 
The consolidated balance sheet, the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss 
(including other comprehensive income), the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and the consolidated statement of cash flows 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with 
the relevant books of account maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with the Ind AS 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
 
 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on 31 March 2023 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and on the basis of written 
representations received by the management 
from directors of its subsidiaries which are 
incorporated in India, as on 31 March 2023, 
none of the directors of the Group companies 
incorporated in India is disqualified as on 
31 March 2023 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 
2023 on the consolidated financial position of 
the Group. Refer income tax liabilities disclosed 
in the consolidated balance sheet along with 
Note 10(g) and Note 20 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
 
The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long-term contracts including 
derivative contracts during the year ended 
31 March 2023.
 
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company during the year ended 
31 March 2023. There are no amounts which 
are required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Subsidiary 
Companies incorporated in India during the year 
ended 31 March 2023.
 
 
(i) 
The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(ii) The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been received 
by the Holding Company or any of its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Holding Company or 
any of its subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India shall directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(iii) Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 

Consolidated Financial Statements | 187
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Holding Company during the year and until the 
date of this audit report is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
 
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India during the year in respect of the same 
declared for the previous year is in accordance 
with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to payment of dividend.
 
 
 
As stated in Note 29 to the financial statements, 
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year which 
is subject to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with Section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of 
dividend.
 
 
As proviso to rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India only with effect 
from 1 April 2023, reporting under Rule 11(g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
is not applicable.
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid 
during the current year by the Holding Company to 
its directors is in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any 
director by the Holding Company is not in excess of 
the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India have not 
paid any remuneration to its directors during the year. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed 
other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which 
are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2023
ICAI UDIN:23060154BGXCZT4611

Consolidated Financial Statements | 188
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 of 
the Holding Company did not include any unfavourable answers or qualifications or adverse remarks. In respect of the following 
entities the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor till the date of principal auditor’s report:
Name of the Subsidiaries 
CIN
MP Online Limited
U72400MP2006PLC018777
APT Online Limited
U75142TG2002PLC039671
C-Edge Technologies Limited
U72900MH2006PLC159038
Mahaonline Limited
U72900MH2010PLC206026

U72300MH2007PLC240002
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2023
ICAI UDIN:23060154BGXCZT4611

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 189
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph 2A(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Holding Company”) as of and for the year 
ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to the financial statements of the 
Holding Company and such companies incorporated in India 
under the Companies Act, 2013, which are its subsidiary 
companies, as of that date.
In our opinion, the Holding Company and such companies 
incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, have, 
in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements and such internal financial 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by such companies considering 
the essential components of such internal controls stated in 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements based on the 
criteria established by the respective company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the 
respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of consolidated financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the Company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2023
ICAI UDIN:23060154BGXCZT4611

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 190
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
 
Property, plant and equipment
10(a)
10,230 
10,774 
 
Capital work-in-progress
10(a)
1,234 
1,205 
 
Right-of-use assets

7,560 
7,636 
 
Goodwill
10(b)
1,858 
1,787 
 
Other intangible assets
10(c)

1,101 
 
Financial assets
 
 Investments
8(a)

 Trade receivables
 
 Billed
8(b)

 Unbilled

 Loans
8(e)

 Other financial assets
8(f)
2,149 
2,253 
 
Income tax assets (net)
2,583 
1,983 
 
Deferred tax assets (net)

3,307 
3,708 
 
Other assets
10(d)
2,806 
2,023 
Total non-current assets
33,381 
33,204 
Current assets
 
Inventories
10(e)

Financial assets
 
 Investments
8(a)
36,897 
30,262 
 
 Trade receivables
 
 Billed
8(b)
41,049 
34,074 
 
 Unbilled
8,905 
7,736 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents
8(c)
7,123 
12,488 
 
 Other balances with banks
8(d)
3,909 
5,733 
 
 Loans
8(e)
1,325 
6,445 
 
 Other financial assets
8(f)
1,319 
1,390 
 
Income tax assets (net)

Other assets
10(d)
9,707 
10,151 
Total current assets
1,10,270
1,08,310
TOTAL ASSETS
1,43,651
1,41,514
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
 
Share capital
8(k)

Other equity
90,058
88,773 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 
90,424
89,139 
 
Non-controlling interests

Total equity
91,206
89,846 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
 
Financial liabilities
 
 Lease liabilities
6,203 
6,368 
 
 Other financial liabilities
8(g)

Employee benefit obligations

Deferred tax liabilities (net)

Unearned and deferred revenue
1,003 
1,110 
Total non-current liabilities
8,887 
9,317 
Current liabilities
 
Financial liabilities
 
 Lease liabilities
1,485 
1,450 
 
 Trade payables
10,515 
8,045 
 
 Other financial liabilities
8(g)
9,068 
7,687 
 
Unearned and deferred revenue
3,843 
3,635 
 
Other liabilities
10(f)
4,892 
8,392 
 
Provisions
10(g)

1,411 
 
Employee benefit obligations

4,065 
3,810 
 
Income tax liabilities (net)
9,345 
7,921 
Total current liabilities
43,558 
42,351 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1,43,651
1,41,514
NOTES FORMING PART OF Consolidated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 191
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations

2,25,458
1,91,754
Other income

3,449 
4,018 
TOTAL INCOME
2,28,907
1,95,772
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses

127,522 
107,554 
Cost of equipment and software licences
15(a)
1,881 
1,163 
Finance costs

Depreciation and amortisation expense
5,022 
4,604 
Other expenses
15(b)
36,796 
29,980 
TOTAL EXPENSES
1,72,000
1,44,085
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 56,907 
 51,687 
Tax expense
Current tax

 14,757 
 13,654 
Deferred tax 

(153)
(416)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
 14,604 
 13,238 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
 42,303 
 38,449 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans

 Net change in fair values of investments in equity shares carried at fair value 
through OCI
 (2)
 (4)
Income tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 (75)

Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Net change in fair values of investments other than equity shares carried at fair 
value through OCI
 (679)
 (516)
 Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 
(25)
(37)
 Net change in time value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

 (34)
 Exchange differences on translation of financial statements of foreign operations

Income tax on items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)

(95)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
42,795 
 38,354 
Profit for the year attributable to: 
Shareholders of the Company
 42,147 
38,327 
Non-controlling interests

 42,303 
 38,449 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company

(63)
Non-controlling interests
 (1)
 (32)

(95)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
42,640 
38,264 
Non-controlling interests

42,795 
 38,354 
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)

115.19 
103.62 
Weighted average number of equity shares
365,90,51,373
369,88,32,195
NOTES FORMING PART OF Consolidated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 192
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL 
(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023

(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2021
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2021
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year*
Balance as at 
March 31, 2022

 (4)

*Refer Note 8(m).
B. OTHER EQUITY 
(` crore)
 Reserves and surplus
 Items of other comprehensive income
Equity 
attributable to 
shareholders 
of the 
Company
 Noncontrolling 
interests 
 Total 
equity 
 Capital 
reserve 
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
 General 
reserve 
 Special 
Economic Zone 
re-investment 
reserve 
 Retained 
earnings 
Statutory 
reserve 
Investment 
revaluation 
reserve 
Cash flow hedging reserve
 Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
 Intrinsic 
value 
Time 
value 
Balance as at April 1, 2022

 7,287 
 78,158 

(53)
 2,189 
 88,773 

 89,480 
Profit for the year
 42,147 
 42,147 

 42,303 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(447)
(19)

(1)

Total comprehensive income
42,422 
(447)
(19)

 42,640 

 42,795 
Dividend
(41,347)
(41,347)
(63)
(41,410)
Purchase of non-controlling interests
(8)
(8)
(17)
(25)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
8,380 
(8,380)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
(3,858)
3,858 
Transfer to reserves

(19)
Balance as at March 31, 2023

 11,809 
 74,722 

(28)
 2,848 
90,058

90,840
Balance as at April 1, 2021

 2,538 
 79,586 

(27)
 2,137 
 86,063 

 86,738 
Profit for the year
 38,327 
 38,327 

 38,449 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(340)
(29)
(26)

(63)
(32)
(95)
Total comprehensive income
 38,607 
(340)
(29)
(26)

 38,264 

 38,354 
Dividend
(13,317)
(13,317)
(58)
(13,375)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
(49)
(49)
Tax on liability towards buy-back of 
equity shares
(4,192)
(4,192)
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares

(18,000)
(17,996)
(17,996)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
 9,407 
(9,407)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
(4,658)
4,658 
Transfer to reserves
(27)

(245)
Balance as at March 31, 2022

 7,287 
 78,158 

(53)
 2,189 
88,773

89,480
 
Gain of `275 crore and `280 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively.
 
Total equity (primarily retained earnings) includes `1,601 crore and `1,759 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 193
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a) Capital reserve
 
The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments 
to capital reserve.
(b) Capital redemption reserve
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve 
is created when company purchases its own shares out of 
free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the 
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred 
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(c) General reserve
 
The general reserve is a free reserve which is used from 
time to time to transfer profits from / to retained earnings 
for appropriation purposes. As the general reserve is 
created by a transfer from one component of equity 
to another and is not an item of other comprehensive 
income, items included in the general reserve will not be 
reclassified subsequently to statement of profit and loss.
(d) Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve 
is created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms 
of the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Group for 
acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per 
the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
(e) Retained earnings
 
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated 
earnings of the Group as on the balance sheet date.
(f) 
Statutory reserve
 
Statutory reserves are created to adhere to requirements 
of applicable laws and will be utilised in accordance with 
the said laws.
(g) Investment revaluation reserve
 
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses 
arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments 
on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated 
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss 
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
(h) Cash flow hedging reserve
 
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative 
effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in 
fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments 
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will 
be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period 
in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
(i) 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 
The exchange differences arising from the translation of 
financial statements of foreign operations with functional 
currency other than Indian Rupee is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and is presented within equity in 
the foreign currency translation reserve.
NOTES FORMING PART OF Consolidated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 194
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
42,303 
38,449 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
5,022 
4,604 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables and 
advances (net)

Tax expense
14,604 
13,238 
Net (gain) / loss on lease modification

(7)
Net loss on sub-lease

Unrealised foreign exchange gain
(189)
(120)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(26)
(23)
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
(224)
(198)
Interest income
(3,248)
(2,663)
Dividend income
(15)
(4)
Finance costs

Operating profit before working capital changes
 59,148 
 54,204 
Net change in
Inventories
(8)
(12)
Trade receivables
 
Billed
(6,501)
(4,210)
 
Unbilled
(1,182)
(934)
Loans and other financial assets

(116)
Other assets 
(25)

Trade payables
2,036 

Unearned and deferred revenue

(103)
Other financial liabilities
1,417 
1,153 
Other liabilities and provisions
(254)

Cash generated from operations
 54,931 
 51,435 
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(12,966)
(11,486)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 41,965 
 39,949 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
(4,548)
(15,947)
Inter-corporate deposits placed
(8,293)
(14,619)
Purchase of investments#
(1,29,745)
(75,374)
Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
(2,532)
(2,483)
Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets
(213)
(15)
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
(355)
(497)
Proceeds from bank deposits 
 6,252 
11,950 
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits 
13,654 
19,498 
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments#
1,22,687 
73,852 
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable

Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 195
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Interest received
3,080 
2,700 
Dividend received

Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities

(897)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
(1,515)
(1,417)
Interest paid
(779)
(698)
Dividend paid
(41,347)
(13,317)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests
(63)
(58)
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
(180)
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares
(18,000)
Advance towards purchase of non-controlling interests
(24)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (47,878)
 (33,581)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 
 (5,874)
 5,471 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
12,488 
6,858 
Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 7,123 
 12,488 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
 2,114 
 2,211 
 
In deposit accounts 
 4,999 
 10,277 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit

 7,123 
 12,488 
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
#Purchase of investments include `165 crore and `17 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and proceeds 
from disposal / redemption of investments include `161 crore and `87 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
NOTES FORMING PART OF Consolidated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 196
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate information
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and 
its subsidiaries (collectively together with employee 
welfare trusts referred to as “the Group”) provide IT 
services, consulting and business solutions and have been 
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformation journeys. The Group offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of 
IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This is 
delivered through its unique Location-Independent Agile 
delivery model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in 
software development.
 
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at March 
31, 2023, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company 
owned 72.27% of the Company’s equity share capital.
 
The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2023 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2023.
Statement of compliance
 
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standard (referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed under 
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as 
amended from time to time.
Basis of preparation
 
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. All 
assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Group has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
 
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
 
The functional currency of the Company and its Indian 
subsidiaries is the Indian Rupee (`). The functional currency 
of foreign subsidiaries is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at exchange 
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Foreign 
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities 
are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the 
balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses arising 
on settlement and restatement are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
 
The significant accounting policies used in preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements have been discussed 
in the respective notes.
Basis of consolidation
 
The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled 
by it.
 
The Company establishes control when; it has power over 
the entity, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect the entity’s returns by using its power over relevant 
activities of the entity.
 
Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated from 
the date control commences until the date control ceases.
 
The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, during the year 
are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition and 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
 
The financial statements of the Group companies are 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis and all inter-company 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.
 
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do 
not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
transactions. The carrying amount of the Company’s 
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted 
to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which 
the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value 
of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly 
in equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.
 
Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency 
other than the functional currency of the Company have 
been translated using exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss of such 
entities has been translated using weighted average 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 197
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
exchange rates. Translation adjustments have been 
reported as foreign currency translation reserve in the 
statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation 
is disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, 
significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative 
amount of exchange differences related to that foreign 
operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of 
profit and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Use of estimates and judgements
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management to make 
estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of consolidated financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
 
The Group uses the following critical accounting estimates 
in preparation of its consolidated financial statements:
 
(a) Revenue recognition
 
 
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using 
percentage-of-completion method. The Group uses 
judgement to estimate the future cost-to-completion 
of the contracts which is used to determine degree of 
completion of the performance obligation.
 
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
 
 
The Group reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in future periods.
 
(c) Impairment of goodwill
 
 
The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash 
generating units (CGUs) based on the future cash 
flows after considering current economic conditions 
and trends, estimated future operating results and 
growth rate and anticipated future economic and 
regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are 
developed using internal forecasts. The discount rates 
used for the CGUs represent the weighted average 
cost of capital based on the historical market returns 
of comparable companies.
 
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
(e) Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
 
 
The Group uses estimates and judgements based 
on the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation of 
revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances which is 
exercised while determining the provision for income 
tax. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary 
differences and tax losses can be utilised. Accordingly, 
the Group exercises its judgement to reassess the 
carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of 
each reporting period.
 
(f) 
Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
 
The Group estimates the provisions that have present 
obligations as a result of past events and it is probable 
that outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end 
of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect 
the current best estimates.
 
 
The Group uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are 
recognised when there is a possible obligation arising 
from past events, the existence of which will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Group or a present obligation 
that arises from past events where it is either not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the 
amount cannot be made. Contingent assets are 
neither recognised nor disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
(g) Employee benefits
 
 
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the 
nature of defined benefit requires the Group to use 
assumptions. These assumptions have been explained 
under employee benefits note.
 
(h) Leases
 
 
The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to 
be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The Group uses significant judgement in assessing the 
lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate.
 
 
The Group determines the lease term as the noncancellable period of a lease, together with both 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 198
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option; and periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to 
exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend 
a lease, or not to exercise an option to terminate a 
lease, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
that create an economic incentive for the Group to 
exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to 
exercise the option to terminate the lease. The Group 
revises the lease term if there is a change in the noncancellable period of a lease.
 
 
The discount rate is generally based on the 
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being 
evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
Recent pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard 
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to 
time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023, applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
The amendments require companies to disclose their 
material accounting policies rather than their significant 
accounting policies. Accounting policy information, 
together with other information, is material when it can 
reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary 
users of general purpose financial statements. The Group 
does not expect this amendment to have any significant 
impact in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
The amendments clarify how companies account 
for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and 
decommissioning obligations. The amendments narrowed 
the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 
and 24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, 
give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences. The Group is evaluating the impact, if any, in its 
financial statements.
 
Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors
 
The amendments will help entities to distinguish between 
accounting policies and accounting estimates. The 
definition of a change in accounting estimates has been 
replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under 
the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary 
amounts in financial statements that are subject to 
measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting 
estimates if accounting policies require items in financial 
statements to be measured in a way that involves 
measurement uncertainty. The Group does not expect this 
amendment to have any significant impact in its financial 
statements.
Business combinations
 
The Group accounts for its business combinations under 
acquisition method of accounting. Acquisition related costs 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition 
for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the 
acquisition date.
 
Purchase consideration paid in excess of the fair value 
of net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Where 
the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities exceed 
the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values 
of the net assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is 
recognised as capital reserve.
 
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, 
the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the 
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the 
non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in 
equity of subsidiaries.
 
Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in 
entities that are under common control are accounted at 
historical cost. The difference between any consideration 
given and the aggregate historical carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in 
shareholders’ equity.
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability.
 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 199
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value to be cash 
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances 
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
 
Financial assets at amortised cost
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost if these financial assets are held within a business 
whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the 
financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.
 
The Group has made an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments 
not held for trading in other comprehensive income.
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss unless they are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial 
recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Financial liabilities
 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
 
Equity instruments
 
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual 
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are 
recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.
 
Derivative accounting
 
Instruments in hedging relationship
 
 
The Group designates certain foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts as 
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange risks. 
These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
 
 
The Group uses hedging instruments that are 
governed by the policies of the Company and its 
subsidiaries which are approved by their respective 
Board of Directors. The policies provide written 
principles on the use of such financial derivatives 
consistent with the risk management strategy of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.
 
 
The hedge instruments are designated and 
documented as hedges at the inception of the 
contract. The Group determines the existence of 
an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no 
longer expected to occur, then the amounts that have 
been accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the 
designated hedging instrument is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated under 
the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
 
 
The Group separates the intrinsic value and time value 
of an option and designates as hedging instruments 
only the change in intrinsic value of the option. 
The change in fair value of the intrinsic value and 
time value of an option is recognised in the other 
comprehensive income and accounted as a separate 
component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified 
into the statement of profit and loss when the related 
hedged items affect profit and loss.
 
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or 
loss recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity till that time remains and is 
recognised in statement of profit and loss when the 
forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and 
loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes 
ineffective.
 
Instruments not in hedging relationship
 
 
The Group enters into contracts that are effective 
as hedges from an economic perspective, but they 
do not qualify for hedge accounting. The change in 
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Group assesses at each date of balance sheet whether 
a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. 
Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be measured 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 200
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables 
that do not constitute a financing transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful trade receivables, the Group has used 
a practical expedient by computing the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The 
provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward looking information. The expected 
credit loss allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance rates used in the provision matrix. For 
all other financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at 
an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition.
(a) Investments
 
Investments consist of the following:
 
Investments – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investments designated at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
Mozido LLC

FCM LLC

Taj Air Limited

Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation

Less: Impairment in value of investments
(134)
(123)
Investments carried at amortised cost
Government bonds and securities (quoted)

Corporate bonds (quoted)

Investments – Non-current includes `229 crore and `187 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts 
held for specified purposes.
 
Investments - Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)
 2,296 
 1,874 
Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
 26,128 
 25,667 
Corporate bonds (quoted)
 3,110 
 1,242 
Investments carried at amortised cost
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Certificate of deposits (quoted)
 2,955 

Commercial papers (quoted)
 2,398 

Treasury bills (quoted)

 36,897 
 30,262 
 
Investments – Current includes `68 crore and `100 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and 
TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
 
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility and with manager to the buy-back 
amounting to `1,650 crore and `3,560 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 201
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 37,127 
 30,449 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net of impairment)

Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 37,121 
 30,455 
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Government bonds and securities

Corporate bonds 

Certificate of deposits 
 2,951 

Commercial papers
 2,400 

Treasury bills

Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are as follows:
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Equity instruments designated 
at fair value through OCI
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
1,00,00,000
USD
1 Mozido LLC

USD
5,00,000 FCM LLC

1,90,00,000
INR
10 Taj Air Limited

5,00,000
PHP
100 Philippine Dealing System Holdings 
Corporation

Less: Impairment in value of investments
(134)
(123)

The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 

Net loss arising on revaluation of financial assets carried at fair value
(2)
(4)
Net loss arising on revaluation of investments other than equities carried at fair 
value through other comprehensive income
(676)
(516)
Deferred tax relating to net loss arising on revaluation of investments other than 
equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive income

Net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and loss on sale of 
investments other than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income
(3)
Deferred tax relating to net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and 
loss on sale of investments other than equities carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Balance at the end of the year 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 202
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(b) Trade receivables – Billed
 
Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Trade receivables - Billed - Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables - Billed

1,013 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
(675)
(868)
Considered good

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good


Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables - Billed
 (675)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables- Billed
 (868)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 203
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables - Billed
41,244 
 34,253 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
 (297)
 (219)
Considered good
 40,947 
 34,034 
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
 (241)
 (246)
Credit impaired

 41,049 
 34,074 
 
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 36,529 
 3,360 

 41,206 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired

36,594 
 3,402 

 41,587 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables- Billed
 (538)
 41,049 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 8,905 
 49,954 
 
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 30,102 
 2,601 

 34,229 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired

30,104 
 2,604 

 34,539 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables- Billed
 (465)
 34,074 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 7,736 
 41,810 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 204
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
 2,114 
 2,211 
 
In deposit accounts 
 4,999 
 10,277 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit

 7,123 
 12,488 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Balances with banks in current accounts include `8 crore and `32 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to 
trusts held for specified purposes.
(d) Other balances with banks
 
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks

Short-term bank deposits
3,224 
 5,507 
3,909 
 5,733 
 
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments, margin money for derivative 
contracts, unclaimed dividends and liquidity backstop as a part of regulatory requirements.
(e) Loans
 
Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Loans – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits

Loans and advances to employees

Loans – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits

 6,074 
Loans and advances to employees

Credit impaired
Loans and advances to employees

Less: Allowance on loans and advances to employees
(32)
(23)
 1,325 
 6,445 
 
Inter-corporate deposits yield fixed interest rate and are placed with financial institutions, who are authorized to accept and use 
such inter-corporate deposits as per regulations applicable to them. Inter-corporate deposits include `932 crore and `978 crore 
as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 205
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(f) Other financial assets
 
Other financial assets consist of the following:
 
Other financial assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Security deposits

Earmarked balances with banks

Long-term bank deposits
 1,334 
 1,232 
Interest receivable

Others

 2,149 
 2,253 
 
Other financial assets - Current 
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Security deposits

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

Interest receivable

Others

1,319 
 1,390 
 
Interest receivable includes `66 crore and `34 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS 
Foundation held for specified purposes.
(g) Trade Payables
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
 1,776 
 1,903 

 3,730 
Disputed dues - Others

 3,759 
Accrued expenses
 6,756 
 10,515 
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
 1,187 

 2,047 
Disputed dues - Others

 2,079 
Accrued expenses
 5,966 
 8,045 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 206
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(h) Other financial liabilities
 
Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
 
Other financial liabilities – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital creditors

Others

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, by the seller of TCS 
e-Serve Limited (merged with the Company) which, on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
 
Other financial liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Accrued payroll
 6,847 
 5,572 
Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts
 1,137 
 1,034 
Others

 9,068 
 7,687 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
 Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
 Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
 Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
 Amortised 
cost 
 Total 
carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 7,123 
 7,123 
Bank deposits
 4,558 
 4,558 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments
 2,296 
 29,274 
 5,593 
 37,163 
Trade receivables
 Billed
 41,198 
 41,198 
 Unbilled
 9,104 
 9,104 
Loans
 1,498 
 1,498 
Other financial assets

 1,751 
 1,942 
 2,296 
 29,274 

 71,702 
1,03,463
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 10,515 
 10,515 
Lease liabilities
 7,688 
 7,688 
Other financial liabilities

 9,280 
 9,421 

 27,483 
 27,624 
 
Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `1,016 crore, with original maturity period within 24 months.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 207
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
 Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
 Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
 Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
 Amortised 
cost 
 Total 
carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
12,488 
12,488 
Bank deposits
6,739 
6,739 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments
1,874 
26,945 
1,666 
30,485 
Trade receivables
 Billed
34,219 
34,219 
 Unbilled
7,791 
7,791 
Loans
6,756 
6,756 
Other financial assets

1,840 
2,228 
1,874 
26,945 

71,908 
1,01,115
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
8,045 
8,045 
Lease liabilities
7,818 
7,818 
Other financial liabilities

8,131 
8,259 

23,994 
24,122 
 
Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `6,377 crore, with original maturity period within 36 months.
 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
approximate the fair value due to their nature. Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other 
financial assets and other financial liabilities which are subsequently measured at amortised cost also approximate the fair value 
due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of 
investments carried at amortised cost is `5,587 crore and `1,672 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
(j) 
Fair value hierarchy
 
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable 
or unobservable and consists of the following three levels:
 
Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2 — Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 
Level 3 — Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in 
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market 
transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
 
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 208
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that 
are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
2,296 
2,296 
Equity shares

Government bonds and securities
26,314 
26,314 
Corporate bonds
3,160 
3,160 
Certificate of deposits
2,951 
2,951 
Commercial papers
2,400 
2,400 
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

37,121 

37,348 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
1,874 
1,874 
Equity shares

Government bonds and securities
25,859 
25,859 
Corporate bonds
1,252 
1,252 
Certificate of deposits

Commercial papers

Treasury bills

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

30,455 

30,879 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year

Impairment in value of investments
(2)
(4)
Other adjustments during the year
(55)
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

(k) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity
 
The Group’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs 
are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Group to currency fluctuations.
 
The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk 
management plan of the Group which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Under the 
guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Group uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward, 
currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 209
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount 
of contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount 
of contracts 
 (In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
US Dollar

 1,635 

Great Britain Pound

Euro

Australian Dollar

 (21)
Canadian Dollar

 (1)
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Intrinsic value
Time value
Intrinsic value
Time value
Balance at the beginning of the year

(53)

(27)
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on occurrence of 
forecasted hedge transactions
 (376)

(636)

Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss 
on occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions

 (144)

(122)
Change in the fair value of effective portion of 
cash flow hedges

 (456)

(559)
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of effective 
portion of cash flow hedges
 (84)

 (131)

Balance at the end of the year

(28)

(53)
 
The Group has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by way of foreign exchange forward, currency 
options and futures contracts. As at March 31, 2023 and 2022, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated to 
`47,500 crore and `46,392 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of `13 crore and 
`158 crore.
 
Exchange loss of `1,162 crore and gain of `645 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the years ended 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `112 crore and gain of `111 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for 
the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Net loss on derivative instruments of `20 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve as at March 31, 2023, is expected to be 
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2024. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow 
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2023.
 
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on Group’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation / 
depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign currencies
(387)
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies

2,034

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 210
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(l) 
Financial risk management
 
The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which 
may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks 
associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of 
the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Group.
 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign 
currency exchange rate risk.
 
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
 
 
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss and other comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where 
assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities. Considering 
the countries and economic environment in which the Group operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from 
fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
 
 
The Group, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any 
movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against major foreign currencies may impact 
the Group’s revenue in international business.
 
 
The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
 
 
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective functional currencies of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries.
 
 
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures for each of the subsidiaries and Tata Consultancy 
Services Limited as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive 
income and equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by 
the Group as disclosed in note 8(k).
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 3,869 

 2,136 
Net financial liabilities
 (11,021)
 (657)
 (1,536)
 (270)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `713 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,900 

 1,234 
Net financial liabilities
 (8,589)
 (437)
 (1,290)
 (421)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 211
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `635 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
 
Interest rate risk
 
 
The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly 
exposed to interest rate risk.
 
Credit risk
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms 
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well 
as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous 
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit.
 
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, 
derivative financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial assets. Inter-corporate deposits of 
`1,016 crore are with a financial institution having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits include 
an amount of `4,273 crore held with three banks having high credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of 
the Group’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2023. None of the other financial instruments of the Group result in material 
concentration of credit risk.
 
Exposure to credit risk
 
 
The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk was `1,09,258 crore and `1,05,498 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, being the 
total of the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments, trade receivables, loan, contract assets and 
other financial assets.
 
 
The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade 
receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2023 and 2022.
 
Geographic concentration of credit risk
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Gross%
Net%
Gross%
Net%
United States of America
 43.65 
 44.31 
 43.79 
 44.69 
India
 15.45 
 14.06 
 15.51 
 13.83 
United Kingdom
 16.05 
 16.37 
 16.47 
 16.86 
 
 
Geographical concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the 
location of the customers.
 
 
The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was 
`126 crore and `123 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful trade receivables is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,333 
 1,289 
Change during the year

Bad debts written off
 (253)
 (83)
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 1,213 
 1,333 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 212
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Liquidity risk
 
 
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk 
management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Group 
consistently generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and 
when they fall due.
 
 
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(` crore)
March 31, 2023
 Due in 
1st year 
 Due in 
2nd year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 10,515 
 10,515 
Lease liabilities
 1,969 
 1,771 
 3,185 
 2,836 
 9,761 
Other financial liabilities
 8,948 

9,310 
21,432 
1,822 
3,487 
2,845 
29,586 
Derivative financial liabilities


21,573 
1,822 
3,487 
2,845 
29,727 
(` crore)
March 31, 2022
 Due in 
1st year 
 Due in 
2nd year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
8,045 
8,045 
Lease liabilities
1,850 
1,618 
3,201 
3,150 
9,819 
Other financial liabilities
7,582 

8,161 
17,477 
1,961 
3,432 
3,155 
26,025 
Derivative financial liabilities


17,605 
1,961 
3,432 
3,155 
26,153 
(m) Equity instruments
 
The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Authorised 
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each)

Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each)

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder value, safeguard business continuity and support 
the growth of the Company. The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term 
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The 
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 213
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up 
equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share in the previous year. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.
 
Reconciliation of number of shares
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance
365,90,51,373

369,90,51,373

Shares extinguished on buy-back
(4,00,00,000)
 (4)
Closing balance
365,90,51,373

365,90,51,373

II. 
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
 
 
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per 
share held and carry a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding.
 
III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Holding company
264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 264,43,17,117 equity shares) are 
held by Tata Sons Private Limited

Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company
7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 7,220 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Industries Limited*
10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 10,14,172 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Investment Corporation Limited*
46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 46,798 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Steel Limited*
766 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 766 equity shares) are held by The Tata 
Power Company Limited*

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.
 
IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company
264,43,17,117
264,43,17,117
% of shareholding
72.27%
72.27%

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 214
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Equity shares movement during 5 years preceding March 31, 2023
 
 
Equity shares issued as bonus
 
 
 
The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred 
from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in the quarter 
ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through postal 
ballot.
 
 
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back
 
 
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
January 6, 2021.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
September 26, 2018.
 
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
2,64,43,17,117
72.27%
2,64,43,17,117
72.27%
Total
 2,64,43,17,117 
72.27%
 2,64,43,17,117 
72.27%
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
2,64,43,17,117
72.27%
2,66,91,25,829
72.16%
0.11%
Total
 2,64,43,17,117 
72.27%
 2,66,91,25,829 
72.16%
0.11%
Leases
 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
 
Group as a lessee
 
The Group accounts for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the 
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of 
the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components.
 
The Group recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term at the lease 
commencement date. The cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial 
measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 215
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the 
commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use 
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date of the lease. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably 
similar characteristics, the Group, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease 
or the incremental borrowing rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed payments, variable lease 
payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price of a purchase option where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate 
the lease. The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease 
liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any 
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments. The Group recognises the amount 
of the re-measurement of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset and statement of profit 
and loss depending upon the nature of modification. Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the remeasurement in statement of profit and loss.
 
The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease 
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
Group as a lessor
 
At the inception of the lease the Group classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease. The Group 
recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In case of a 
finance lease, finance income is recognised over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on 
the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from 
the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the 
exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.
 
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with 
customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
 
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,236 
 6,330 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

 1,520 
 7,560 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 216
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,357 
 6,586 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

 1,624 
 7,636 
 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land

Buildings
1,530 
 1,465 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

1,634 
 1,560 
 
Interest on lease liabilities is `492 crore and `519 crore for for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
The Group incurred `318 crore and `277 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards expenses 
relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The total cash outflow for leases is `2,538 crore and `2,228 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, 
including cash outflow for short term and low value leases.
 
The Group has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of 
future cash outflows for such extension periods is `786 crore and `773 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Lease contracts entered by the Group majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course.
 
The Group does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
10) Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
(a) Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
 
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at 
the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 217
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings 
20 years
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years
Computer equipment
4 years
Vehicles
4 years
Office equipment
2-5 years
Electrical installations
4-10 years
Furniture and fixtures
5 years
 
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
 
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 218
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022

 7,829 
 2,569 

 12,087 

 2,686 
 2,062 
 1,906 
 30,300 
Additions

 1,628 

 2,314 
Disposals
(5)
(15)
(342)
(4)
(69)
(9)
(14)
(458)
Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2023

 8,066 
 2,673 

 13,435 

 2,815 
 2,138 
 1,992 
 32,344 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 1, 2022
 (3,343)
 (1,736)
 (377)
 (8,563)
 (35)
 (2,315)
 (1,503)
 (1,654)
 (19,526)
Depreciation
(398)
(186)
(80)
(1,755)
(4)
(219)
(140)
(110)
(2,892)
Disposals

Translation exchange difference
(7)
(38)
(1) 
(47)
(15)
(12)
(23)
(143)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2023
(3,744)
(1,945)
(458)
(10,025)
(36)
(2,487)
(1,646)
(1,773)
(22,114)
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2023

 4,322 

 3,410 

10,230 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,234 
Total
 11,464 
 *`2,314 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2023.
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2021

 7,777 
 2,502 

 10,734 

 2,574 
 2,058 
 1,885 
 28,658 
Additions

 1,868 

 2,345 
Disposals
 (2)
 (53)
 (1)
 (515)
 (1)
 (75)
 (44)
 (42)
 (733)
Translation exchange difference

 (1)

Cost as at March 31, 2022

 7,829 
 2,569 

 12,087 

 2,686 
 2,062 
 1,906 
 30,300 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 1, 2021
 (2,947)
 (1,575)
 (302)
 (7,531)
 (33)
 (2,199)
 (1,393)
 (1,568)
 (17,548)
Depreciation
 (396)
 (205)
 (76)
 (1,547)
 (3)
 (191)
 (149)
 (122)
 (2,689)
Disposals

Translation exchange difference
 (2)
 (8)

 (4)
 (6)
 (14)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2022
 (3,343)
 (1,736)
 (377)
 (8,563)
 (35)
 (2,315)
 (1,503)
 (1,654)
 (19,526)
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2022

 4,486 

 3,524 

10,774 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,205 
Total
 11,979 
 *`2,345 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 219
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Capital work-in-progress
 
 
Capital work-in-progress ageing
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,234 

 1,234 
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,205 

Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects 
are executed as per rolling annual plan.
 
(b) Goodwill
 
 
Goodwill represents the cost of acquired business as established at the date of acquisition of the business in excess of 
the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities less accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that the 
implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount.
 
 
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication 
for impairment. The financial projections basis which the future cash flows have been estimated consider economic 
uncertainties, reassessment of the discount rates, revisiting the growth rates factored while arriving at terminal value and 
subjecting these variables to sensitivity analysis. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other 
assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
 
 
Goodwill consists of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,787 
 1,798 
Translation exchange difference

(11)
Balance at the end of the year
1,858 
 1,787 
 
 
Goodwill of `685 crore and `646 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, has been allocated to the TCS business 
in France. The estimated value-in-use of this CGU is based on the future cash flows using a 1.50% annual growth rate 
for periods subsequent to the forecast period of 5 years and discount rate of 9.30%. An analysis of the sensitivity of the 
computation to a change in key parameters (operating margin, discount rates and long term average growth rate), based on 
reasonable assumptions, did not identify any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the CGU would decrease 
below its carrying amount.
 
 
The remaining amount of goodwill of `1,173 crore and `1,141 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, (relating 
to different CGUs individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow forecasts of the related CGUs and the 
recoverable amounts of these CGUs exceeded their carrying amounts.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 220
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(c) Other intangible assets
 
 
Intangible assets purchased including acquired in business combination, are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, 
as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software licences and customer-related intangibles.
 
 
Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated useful lives:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Rights under licensing agreement and software licences
Lower of licence period and 2-5 years
Customer-related intangibles
3 years
 
 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.
 
 
Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Customer-related 
intangibles
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022
 1,697 

 1,818 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (73)
 (73)
Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2023
 1,892 

 2,018 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2022
 (596)
 (121)
 (717)
Amortisation
 (496)
(496)
Disposals / Derecognised

Translation exchange difference
 (6)
 (5)
 (11)
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2023
 (1,025)
 (126)
 (1,151)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2023

(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Customer-related 
intangibles
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2021

Additions
 1,002 
 1,002 
Disposals / Derecognised
 (42)
 (42)
Translation exchange difference
 (3)
 (1)
 (4)
Cost as at March 31, 2022
 1,697 

 1,818 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2021
 (265)
 (117)
 (382)
Amortisation
 (349)
 (6)
 (355)
Disposals / Derecognised

Translation exchange difference

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2022
 (596)
 (121)
 (717)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022
 1,101 
 1,101 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 221
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Amortisation expense

(d) Other assets
 
 
Other assets consist of the following:
 
 
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
 2,138 
 1,291 
Contract fulfillment costs

Others

 2,806 
 2,023 
Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited
Saankhya Labs Private Limited

Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
 
Other assets – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Advance to suppliers

Advance to related parties

Contract assets
 5,616 
4,248 
Prepaid expenses
 1,494 
2,994 
Prepaid rent

Contract fulfillment costs
 1,035 
 1,074 
Indirect taxes recoverable
 1,049 
1,310 
Others

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 222
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers

Other advances

Less: Allowance on doubtful assets
(6)
(6)
9,707 
10,151 
Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Tata Sons Private Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

Titan Company Limited

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
 
Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `271 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
 
Contract fulfillment costs of `967 crore and `809 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, have 
been amortised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in contract assets.
 
(e) Inventories
 
 
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components, b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and 
d) Finished goods. Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies 
and components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Group 
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
 
 
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components

Finished goods and work-in-progress

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
(f) 
Other liabilities
 
 
Other liabilities consist of the following:
 
 
Other liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Advance received from customers

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory liabilities 
 4,119 
 3,632 
Tax liability on buy-back of equity shares
 4,192 
Others

 4,892 
 8,392 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 223
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(g) Provisions
 
 
Provisions consist of the following:
 
 
Provisions – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)

 1,249 
Provision for foreseeable loss

Other provisions

 1,411 
11) Other equity
 
Other equity consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital reserve

Capital redemption reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer from retained earnings

General reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer to retained earnings
(27)
Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 Opening balance
 7,287 
 2,538 
 Transfer from retained earnings
 8,380 
 9,407 
 Transfer to retained earnings
(3,858)
(4,658)
 11,809 
 7,287 
Retained earnings
 Opening balance
 78,158 
 79,586 
 Profit for the year
42,147 
 38,327 
 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 

 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
 Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(4,192)
 Buy-back of equity shares
(17,996)
 Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve 
3,858 
 4,658 
 Transfer from general reserve

 Purchase of non-controlling interests
(8)
1,24,430
 1,00,641 
 Less: Appropriations
 
Dividend on equity shares
 41,347 
 13,317 
 
Transfer to capital redemption reserve

Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
8,380 
 9,407 
 
Transfer from statutory reserve
(19)
(245)
 74,722 
 78,158 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 224
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Statutory reserve
Opening balance

Transfer to retained earnings
(19)
(245)

Investment revaluation reserve
Opening balance 

Change during the year (net)
(447)
(340)

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 8(k))
Opening balance
(26)

Change during the year (net)

(55)
(20)
(26)
Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance
 2,189 
2,137 
Change during the year (net)

 2,848 
 2,189 
90,058
88,773 
12) Revenue recognition
 
The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Group offers a consultingled, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc.
 
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Group is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over the period of performance.
 
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method .
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer.
 
The solutions offered by the Group may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Group is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
 
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.
 
The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Group assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 225
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
 
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Group allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
 
The Group exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period 
of time. The Group considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who controls 
the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of such 
product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
 
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
 
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified 
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of 
time is required, as per contractual terms.
 
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
 
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress 
payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
 
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
 
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract specification and requirements. The Group reviews 
modification to contract in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price could be allocated to a new 
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is 
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
 
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
 
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Consultancy services
2,23,332 
1,90,289
Sale of equipment and software licences
 2,126 
 1,465 
2,25,458
1,91,754
 
Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included in segment information (Refer note 19).
 
While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially 
satisfied) performance obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise those revenues, the 
Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Group has not disclosed the aggregate transaction price 
allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised 
corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 226
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, 
changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc). 
The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `1,38,231 crore 
out of which 53.17% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from 
contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.
 
Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 4,419 
 4,080 
Invoices raised that were included in the contract assets balance at the beginning of 
the year
 (3,305)
 (3,150)
Increase due to revenue recognised during the year, excluding amounts billed during 
the year
 4,519 
 3,457 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 5,831 
 4,419 
 
Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 4,745 
 4,847 
Revenue recognised that was included in the unearned and deferred revenue 
balance at the beginning of the year
 (3,071)
 (3,251)
Increase due to invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as revenue 
during the year
 3,088 
 3,094 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 4,846 
 4,745 
 
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Contracted price
 2,28,932 
 1,94,777 
Reductions towards variable consideration components
 (3,474)
 (3,023)
Revenue recognised
 2,25,458 
 1,91,754 
 
The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 227
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
13) Other income
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest method.
 
Other income consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
 3,248 
2,663 
Dividend income

Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments carried at fair value through 
profit or loss

Net gain on sale of investments other than equity shares carried at fair value 
through OCI

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Net gain / (loss) on lease modification
(2)

Net loss on sub-lease
(9)
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss)
 (159)
1,045 
Other income

 3,449 
4,018 
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits

Interest on financial assets carried at amortised cost

Interest on financial assets carried at fair value through OCI
 2,131 
1,818 
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds)

Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from mutual fund units and other investments

14) Employee benefits
 
Defined benefit plans
 
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the 
changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and 
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the 
entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
 
The Group provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which are 
treated as defined benefit plans.
 
Defined contribution plans
 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to 
such benefits.
 
The Group provides benefits such as superannuation, provident fund (other than Company managed fund) and foreign defined 
contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 228
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Short-term employee benefits
 
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal 
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
 
Compensated absences
 
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date. Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services are 
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
 
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Salaries, incentives and allowances
 1,14,359 
 96,263 
Contributions to provident and other funds
 9,644 
 8,450 
Staff welfare expenses
 3,519 
 2,841 
 1,27,522 
 1,07,554 
 
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
 
Employee benefit obligations – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Gratuity liability

Foreign defined benefit plans

Other employee benefit obligations

Employee benefit obligations – Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Compensated absences
 4,027 
 3,760 
Other employee benefit obligations

 4,065 
 3,810 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 229
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
 
Gratuity and pension
 
In accordance with Indian law, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries in India operate a scheme of gratuity which 
is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in 
employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year 
of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a trust. 
Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement 
benefit pension plans in accordance with the local laws.
 
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Change in benefit 
obligations
Benefit obligations, 
beginning of the year
 4,482 

 2,294 
 269 7,048 
 4,315 

 2,292 

 6,856 
Translation exchange 
difference

 (17)

 (13)
Plan participants’ 
contribution

Service cost

Interest cost

Remeasurement 
of the net defined 
benefit liability
 (158)
 (627)
 (39)
 (824)
 (188)

 (34)
 (9)
 (230)
Past service cost / 
(credit)
 (7)
 (7)

Benefits paid
 (504)
 (6)
 (26)
 (536)
 (489)
 (1)
 (35)
 (13)
 (538)
Shift of plan from 
unfunded to funded 
position

 (9)
Benefit obligations, 
end of the year
 4,667 

 1,833 
 294 6,797 
 4,482 

 2,294 

 7,048 
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan 
assets, beginning of 
the year
 5,527 
 2,132 
7,659 
 4,706 
 2,073 
 6,779 
Translation exchange 
difference

 (21)
 (21)
Interest income

Employers’ 
contributions
 1,060 

 1,079 

 1,028 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 230
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Plan participants’ 
contribution

Benefits paid
 (504)
 (6)
 (510)
 (489)
 (35)
 (524)
Remeasurement - return 
on plan assets excluding 
amount included in 
interest income
 (103)
 (371)
 (474)
 (5)

Fair value of plan 
assets, end of the year
 6,405 
 1,929 
8,334 
 5,527 
 2,132 
 7,659 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Funded status
Deficit of plan 
assets over 
obligations
 (8)
 (3)
 (89)
 (294)
 (394)
 (10)
 (3)
 (221)
 (269)
 (503)
Surplus of plan 
assets over 
obligations
 1,746 

 - 1,931 
 1,055 

 1,114 
 1,738 
 (3)

 (294)
1,537 
 1,045 
 (3)
 (162)
 (269)

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Category of assets
Corporate bonds
 1,832 

 - 2,119 
 1,697 

2,066 
Equity instruments

Government bonds 
and securities
 2,917 
 - 2,917 
 2,625 

2,820 
Insurer managed 
funds
 1,390 

 - 1,933 

1,486 
Bank balances

Others

6,405 
1,929 
8,334 
5,527 
2,132 
7,659 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 231
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Service cost

Net interest on net 
defined benefit 
(asset) / liability
(93)

(78)
(39)

(33)
Past service cost / 
(credit)
 (7)
 (7)

Net periodic 
gratuity / pension 
cost

Actual return on 
plan assets

 (345)
 (23)

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)
 Year ended March 31, 2023 
 Domestic 
plans 
Funded 
 Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded 
 Foreign 
plans 
Funded 
 Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in financial assumptions
 (164)
 (625)
 (47)
 (836)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in experience adjustments
 (24)
 (2)

 (23)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 
liability
 (158)
 (627)
 (39)
 (824)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets 
excluding amount included in interest income

Asset ceiling recognised in OCI
 (55)
 (256)
 (39)
 (350)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 232
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
 Year ended March 31, 2022
 Domestic 
plans 
Funded 
 Domestic 
plans 
Unfunded 
 Foreign 
plans 
Funded 
 Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions
 (20)
 (13)
 (2)
 (35)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in financial assumptions
 (166)
 (55)
 (25)
 (246)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in experience adjustments
 (2)

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 
liability
 (188)

 (34)
 (9)
 (230)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets 
excluding amount included in interest income

 (36)
 (31)
 (183)

 (70)
 (9)
 (261)
 
The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Discount rate 
 7.25% - 7.50% 
 2.16% - 9.40% 
 4.50%-7.25% 0.77%-8.30% 
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered 
employees
 4.00% - 8.00% 
 1.50% - 7.00% 
 4.00%-6.00% 1.50%-7.00% 
Rate of return on plan assets
 7.25% - 7.50% 
 2.16% - 9.40% 
 4.50%-7.25% 0.77%-8.30% 
Weighted average duration of defined benefit 
obligations
 2-13 Years 
 3-28 Years 
 2-16 years 
 3-31 years 
 
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India.
 
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to measure Group’s defined benefit plan obligations as 
at March 31, 2023. The Group is expected to contribute `55 crore to defined benefit plan obligations funds for the year ending 
March 31, 2024 comprising domestic component of `8 crore and foreign component of `47 crore.
 
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligations are discount rate and expected 
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Increase of 0.50%
 (265)
 (372)
Decrease of 0.50%

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as 
follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Increase of 0.50%

Decrease of 0.50%
 (147)
 (188)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 233
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
 
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligations has been calculated 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the 
defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
 
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are 
analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.
 
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after year ended March 31, 2023 as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Defined benefit 
obligations

2029-2033
 2,722 
 
Provident fund
 
In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of Tata Consultancy Services Limited in India are entitled to receive benefits 
under the provident fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to a trust set 
up by the Company to manage the investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit 
plan as the Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest 
rate declared by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government 
administered pension fund. The contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as 
an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund 
liabilities on the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions as mentioned below, there 
is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected 
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered 
provident fund.
 
All eligible employees of Indian subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund plan in 
which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to the Government administered provident 
fund plan. A part of the company’s contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. This plan is a defined 
contribution plan as the obligation of the employer is limited to the monthly contributions made to the fund. The contributions 
made to the fund are recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
 
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fair value of plan assets
25,511 
22,814 
Present value of defined benefit obligations
(25,511)
(22,814)
Net excess / (shortfall)
 
The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds. 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 234
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of interest guarantee under the deterministic 
approach are as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Discount rate
7.50%
7.00%
Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio
7 years
8 years
Guaranteed rate of return
8.15%
8.10%
 
The Group expensed `1,628 crore and `1,383 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards 
provident fund.
 
Superannuation
 
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Group 
makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Group recognises such contributions as an 
expense when incurred. The Group has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
 
The Group expensed `394 crore and `383 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards Employees’ 
Superannuation Fund.
 
Foreign defined contribution plans
 
The Group expensed `2,109 crore and `1,796 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards foreign 
defined contribution plans.
15) Cost recognition
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
 
The costs of the Group are broadly categorised in employee benefit expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, 
depreciation and amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include fees to external consultants, 
facility expenses, travel expenses, communication expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material 
such as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
 
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
 
 
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components consumed

Equipment and software licences purchased
 1,846 
 1,137 
 1,883 
 1,166 
Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock

Less: Closing stock

 (2)
 (3)
 1,881 
 1,163 
 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 235
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(b) Other expenses
 
 
Other expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Fees to external consultants
 21,337 
 17,409 
Facility expenses
 2,655 
 2,139 
Travel expenses
 2,675 
 1,589 
Communication expenses
 2,246 
 2,050 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables 
and advances (net)

Other expenses
 7,743 
 6,658 
 36,796 
 29,980 
16) Finance costs
 
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest on lease liabilities

Interest on tax matters

Other interest costs

17) Income taxes
 
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income taxes
 
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India and overseas. The 
current tax payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax payable after taking credit for tax relief 
available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
 
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
 
The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary 
in the respective jurisdiction in which it operates.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred income taxes
 
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 236
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
 
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of 
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after 
the tax holiday ends.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
 
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be 
available for set off against future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the balance 
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will 
be realised.
 
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
15,389 
 14,333 
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years
(632)
(679)
 14,757 
 13,654 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year
(130)
(333)
Deferred tax benefit pertaining to prior years
(23)
(83)
(153)
(416)
 14,604 
 13,238 
 
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in 
consolidated statement of profit and loss is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit before tax
 56,907 
51,687 
Indian statutory income tax rate
34.94%
34.94%
Expected income tax expense
 19,887 
18,062 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported 
income tax expense
Tax holidays
(5,112)
(4,792)
Income exempt from tax
(236)
(396)
Undistributed earnings in branches and subsidiaries

(47)
Tax on income at different rates

Tax pertaining to prior years
(655)
(762)
Others (net)
(64)

Total income tax expense
 14,604 
13,238 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 237
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 
2005. These tax holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the 
SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or 
gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% 
of such profits or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits 
from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit and 
loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from 
other comprehensive 
income
Adjustments 
/ Utilisation
Exchange 
difference
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / 
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,042 

(62)

1,056 
Cash flow hedges

(1)

Receivables, financial assets at 
amortised cost

(46)

MAT credit entitlement

(975)
Branch profit tax
(77)
(58)
(135)
Undistributed earnings of 
subsidiaries
(355)
(179)
(534)
Unrealised gain on securities 
carried at fair value through 
profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(320)
(1)

(84)
Lease liabilities

Others 

3,118 

(975)

2,515 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,065 

1,056 
Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(135)
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

(534)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(83)

(84)
Lease liabilities

Others 

3,307 

2,515 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 238
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit and 
loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from 
other comprehensive 
income
Ajustments / 
utilisation
Exchange 
difference
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / 
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets

(6)

Provision for employee benefits 

(2)
(5)
1,042 
Cash flow hedges
(8)

(1)

Receivables, financial assets at 
amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement
1,710 
(735)

Branch profit tax
(310)

(77)
Undistributed earnings of 
subsidiaries
(198)
(157)
(355)
Unrealised gain on securities 
carried at fair value through 
profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(500)

(320)
Lease liabilities

(22)

Others 

 3,164 

 (737)

 3,118 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,062 

1,042 
Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement

Branch profit tax

(77)
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

(355)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(320)
(320)
Lease liabilities

(1)

Others 

3,708 

3,118 
 
Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, unabsorbed business losses expire 8 years after the year in which they originate. In respect 
of certain foreign subsidiaries, business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial change in the 
ownership.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 239
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relate primarily to business losses and tax credit entitlements which do not qualify for 
recognition as per the applicable accounting standards. These unexpired business losses will expire based on the year of 
origination as follows:
(` crore)
March 31,
Unabsorbed 
business losses

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Tata Consultancy Services Limited is liable to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday 
period. MAT paid can be carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT is 
recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic 
benefit associated with the asset will be realised.
 
Deferred tax liability on temporary differences of `7,180 crore as at March 31, 2023, associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
has not been recognised, as it is the intention of Tata Consultancy Services Limited to reinvest the earnings of these subsidiaries 
for the foreseeable future.
 Direct tax contingencies
 
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other 
jurisdictions where they operate. The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation 
or eligibility of tax incentives and allowances and characterisation of fees for services received. The Company and its subsidiaries 
have recognised contingent liability in respect of tax demands received from direct tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions 
of `1,542 crore and `1,652 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. These demand orders are being contested by the 
Company and its subsidiaries based on the management evaluation and advise of tax consultants. In respect of tax contingencies 
of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an 
indemnification from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
 
The Group periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax authorities related to the Group’s operations in the 
jurisdictions it operates in. The Group has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent income 
tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
 
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India, tax filings from fiscal 2018 
are generally subject to examination by the tax authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation applies 
to fiscals 2017 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation 
generally applies to fiscal 2018 and earlier.
18) Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive 
securities in any of the years presented.
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company (` crore)
 42,147 
 38,327 
Weighted average number of equity shares
365,90,51,373
369,88,32,195
Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
115.19
103.62
Face value per equity share (`)

19) Segment information
 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is 
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The 
Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 240
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Group has identified business segments (‘industry vertical’) as reportable segments. The business segments comprise: 
1) Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, 2) Manufacturing, 3) Retail and Consumer Business, 4) Communication, Media and 
Technology, 5) Life Sciences and Healthcare and 6) Others such as Energy, Resources and Utilities, s-Governance and Products.
 
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses which are not 
directly identifiable to each reporting segment have been allocated since associated revenue of the segment or manpower efforts. 
All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable expenses.
 
The assets and liabilities of the Group are used interchangeably amongst segments. Allocation of such assets and liabilities is not 
practicable and any forced allocation would not result in any meaningful segregation. Hence assets and liabilities have not been 
identified to any of the reportable segments.
 
Summarised segment information for the years ended March 31,2023 and 2022, is as follows:
Year ended March 31, 2023
(` crore)
Banking, 
Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
Manufacturing
Retail and 
Consumer 
Business
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
Life Sciences 
and 
Healthcare
Others
Total
Revenue from operations
86,127 
21,236 
37,506 
37,653 
24,605 
18,331 
2,25,458
Segment result
22,345 
5,842 
9,636 
10,667 
6,894 
3,875 
 59,259 
Total unallocable expenses
5,801 
Operating income
53,458 
Other income
3,449 
Profit before tax
56,907 
Tax expense
14,604 
Profit for the year
42,303 
Depreciation and 
amortisation expense 
(unallocable)
5,021 
Significant non-cash items 
(allocable)

Year ended March 31, 2022
(` crore)
Banking, 
Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
Manufacturing
Retail and 
Consumer 
Business
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
Life 
Sciences 
and 
Healthcare
Others
Total
Revenue from operations
75,126 
18,610 
30,715 
31,874 
20,462 
14,967 1,91,754 
Segment result
20,174 
5,602 
8,534 
9,518 
6,139 
3,090 
53,057 
Total unallocable expenses
 5,388 
Operating income
47,669 
Other income
4,018 
Profit before tax
51,687 
Tax expense
13,238 
Profit for the year
38,449 
Depreciation and 
amortisation expense 
(unallocable)
4,604 
Significant non-cash items 
(allocable)

(3)

(1)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 241
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Americas
 North America
 1,20,336 
 96,865 
 Latin America
 4,000 
 3,207 
Europe
 United Kingdom
 33,861 
 30,399 
 Continental Europe
 33,575 
 30,743 
Asia Pacific
 18,132 
 16,927 
India
 11,271 
 9,805 
Middle East and Africa
 4,283 
 3,808 
2,25,458
1,91,754
 
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
 
Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Geography
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Americas
 North America
1,899
1,637
 Latin America
1,056

Europe
 United Kingdom
1,487
1,470
 Continental Europe
2,422
2,164
Asia Pacific

India
19,254
19,494
Middle East and Africa

 27,144 
 26,512 
 
Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax 
assets and other non-current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.
 
Information about major customers
 
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively.
20) Commitments and contingencies
 
Capital commitments
 
The Group has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,543 crore and `1,439 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
 
Contingencies
 
Direct tax matters
 
 
Refer note 17.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 242
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Indirect tax matters
 
 
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation 
and classification of certain items. The Company and its subsidiaries have demands amounting to `568 crore and `568 crore 
as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the Company 
and its subsidiaries based on the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
 
Other claims
 
 
Claims aggregating `277 crore and `291 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, against the Group have not been 
acknowledged as debts.
 
 
In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation (referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company 
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential 
information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
 
 
In April 2016, the Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of `7,730 crore (US $940 million) to 
Epic which was thereafter reduced by the Trial Court to `3,454 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to reaffirmation of the 
District Court Order in March 2019, the Company filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also 
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge of `822 crore (US $100 million) award and 
`1,645 crore (US $200 million) in punitive damages.
 
 
On August 20, 2020, the Appeals Court (a) vacated the award of `2,303 crore (US $280 million) in punitive damages 
considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to 
reassess and reduce the punitive damages award to at most `1,151 crore (US $140 million), (b) affirmed the District Court’s 
decision vacating the jury’s award of `822 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages for alleged use of “other 
confidential information” by the Company, and, (c) affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of 
`1,151 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of the comparative analysis by the Company. Considering 
all the facts and various legal precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company provided `1,218 crore 
(US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its statement of profit and loss for three month period ended September 30, 
2020. This was presented as an “exceptional item” in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. On April 8, 2021, Epic 
approached the Supreme Court seeking review of the Order of the Appeals Court which was denied by the Supreme Court 
on March 21, 2022.
 
 
On April 21, 2022, Epic invoked payment of `1,151 crore (US $140 million) out of `3,618 crore (US $440 million) Letter of 
Credit provided as security, towards compensatory damages awarded by the District Court and confirmed by the Appeals 
Court, already provided for in the earlier years.
 
 
On July 1, 2022, the District Court passed an Order affirming the punitive damages at `1,151 crore (US $140 million). The 
Company has filed an appeal on November 16, 2022, in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages awarded by the 
District Court, which is pending.
 
 
Pursuant to encashment of the Letter of Credit towards compensatory damages, the value of Letter of Credit made available 
to Epic stands reduced to `1,250 crore (US $152 million).
 
Letter of comfort
 
 
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter 
of comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide 
such managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
 
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 243
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
21) Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interests
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Tata Consultancy Services 
Limited
India
 76.39 
74,538 
 87.24 
 39,106 
 243.21 
 (394)
 86.67 
 38,712 
Subsidiaries (held directly)
Indian
APTOnline Limited
India
 89.00 
 89.00 
 0.12 

 0.04 

 0.04 

MP Online Limited
India
 89.00 
 89.00 
 0.13 

 0.06 

 0.06 

C-Edge Technologies Limited
India
 51.00 
 51.00 
 0.37 

 0.19 

 0.19 

MahaOnline Limited
India
 74.00 
 74.00 
 0.09 

 0.02 

 0.02 

TCS e-Serve International 
Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.26 

 0.21 

 0.21 

TCS Foundation
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.34 
1,306 
 (0.36)
 (161)
 (0.36)
 (161)
Foreign
Diligenta Limited
U.K.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.56 
1,525 
 0.28 

 23.46 
 (38)
 0.19 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Canada Inc.
Canada
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.40 
1,367 
 1.86 

 1.87 

Tata America International 
Corporation
U.S.A.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.68 
1,642 
 2.15 

 1.23 
 (2)
 2.15 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.
Singapore
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.04 
1,011 
 0.62 

 0.62 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Belgium
Belgium
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.48 

 0.22 

 0.22 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Deutschland GmbH
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.82 

 0.60 

 (17.28)

 0.66 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Netherlands BV
Netherlands
 100.00 
 100.00 
 3.16 
3,080 
 1.05 

 1.05 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Sverige AB
Sweden
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.93 

 0.44 

 0.44 

Australia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.15 

 0.10 

 0.10 

TCS Iberoamerica SA
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.85 
1,806 
 0.39 

 0.39 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
South Africa
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.05 

 0.06 

 0.06 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Qatar L.L.C.
Qatar
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.04 

 (2)
 (2)
Tata Consultancy Services UK 
Limited
U.K.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 


Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 244
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Tata Consultancy Services 
Ireland Limited
Ireland
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.34 

 0.14 

 0.14 

Subsidiaries (held indirectly)
Foreign
Tata Consultancy Services 
(China) Co., Ltd.
China
 100.00 
 93.20 
 0.32 

 0.10 

 0.11 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Japan, Ltd.
Japan
 66.00 
 66.00 
 1.72 
 1,677 
 0.72 

 0.72 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Malaysia Sdn Bhd
Malaysia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.07 

 0.04 

 0.04 

PT Tata Consultancy Services 
Indonesia
Indonesia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.03 

 0.03 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Philippines) Inc.
Philippines
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.13 

 0.18 

 (1.23)

 0.18 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Thailand) Limited
Thailand
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.01 


Tata Consultancy Services 
Italia s.r.l.
Italy
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.08 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Luxembourg S.A.
Capellen 
(G.D. de 
Luxembourg)
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.12 

 0.12 

 0.12 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Switzerland Ltd.
Switzerland
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.86 

 0.46 

 (16.05)

 0.52 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Osterreich GmbH
Austria
 100.00 
 100.00 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Danmark ApS
Denmark
 100.00 
 (0.01)
 (5)
 (0.01)
 (5)
Tata Consultancy Services De 
Espana S.A.
Spain
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.12 

 0.10 

 0.10 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Portugal) Unipessoal, 
Limitada
Portugal
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.04 

 0.04 

 0.04 

Tata Consultancy Services 
France
France
 100.00 
 100.00 
 (0.38)
 (367)
 0.05 

 (9.88)

 0.09 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.14 

 0.02 

 (1.23)

 0.03 

TCS Business Services GmbH
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.08 

 0.01 

 (29.01)

 0.11 

TCS Technology Solutions AG
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.73 

 0.66 

 (86.43)

 0.98 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 245
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Saudi Desert Rose Holding 
B.V. 
Netherlands
 100.00 
 100.00 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
South Africa
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.10 

 0.08 

 0.09 

TCS Financial Solutions 
Beijing Co., Ltd.
China
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.04 

 (0.01)
 (4)
 (0.01)
 (4)
TCS Financial Solutions 
Australia Pty Limited
Australia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.11 

 0.08 

 0.08 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Bulgaria EOOD
Bulgaria
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.04 

 0.04 

TCS Solution Center S.A.
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.34 

 0.25 

 0.26 

TCS Uruguay S.A.
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.25 

 0.23 

 0.23 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Argentina S.A.
Argentina
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.01 

 0.01 

 0.01 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Do Brasil Ltda
Brazil
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.42 

 0.17 

 0.19 

Tata Consultancy Services 
De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
Mexico
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.18 
 1,150 
 0.83 

 (6.79)

 0.84 

MGDC S.C.
Mexico
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.06 

 0.01 

 (0.62)

 0.02 

TCS Inversiones Chile 
Limitada
Chile
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.33 

 0.15 

 0.16 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Chile S.A.
Chile
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.42 

 0.19 

 0.18 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Guatemala, S.A.
Guatemala
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.01 

 0.02 

 0.02 

TATASOLUTION CENTER 
S.A.
Ecuador
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.11 

 0.11 

 0.62 
 (1)
 0.10 

Trusts
India
 0.29 

 0.01 

 0.01 

TOTAL
100.00
 97,580 
100.00
 44,827 
100.00
 (162)
100.00
 44,665 
Adjustments arising 
out of consolidation
 (6,374)
 (2,524)

 (1,870)
Non-controlling 
interests
 
Indian subsidiaries
 
APTOnline Limited
 (13)
 (2)
 (2)
 
MP Online Limited
 (14)
 (3)
 (3)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 246
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
 
C-Edge Technologies 
Limited
 (177)
 (42)
 (42)
 
MahaOnline Limited
 (22)
 (2)
 (2)
 
Foreign subsidiaries
 
Tata Consultancy 
Services (China) Co., 
Ltd.
 
Tata Consultancy 
Services Japan, Ltd.
 (557)
 (107)

 (106)
TOTAL
 (782)
 (156)

 (155)
TOTAL
 90,424 
 42,147 

 42,640 
Notes:
On May 18, 2022, Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. acquired additional 6.8% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. for a 
purchase consideration of `25 crore thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.
Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS liquidated w.e.f. July 27, 2022.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 247
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
22) Related party transactions
 
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own 
subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances 
are with related parties with whom the Group routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 
for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
 
Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
 
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 1,174 
 3,050 
 4,262 
Purchases of goods and services (including 
reimbursements)

Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for doubtful trade receivables 
and advances (net)
 (1)
 (1)
Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,955 
 2,955 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 29,881 

 29,903 
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 2,785 
 3,614 
Purchases of goods and services (including 
reimbursements)

Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for doubtful trade receivables 
and advances (net)
 (3)

 (2)
Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,322 
 2,322 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Dividend paid
 9,609 

 9,616 
Buy-back of shares
 11,164 

 11,174 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 248
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 1,004 
 1,440 
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 

 1,089 
 1,630 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 1,181 
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 

 1,275 
 
Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and deferred 
revenue, other financial liabilities and other 
liabilities

 1,190 
Commitments and guarantees

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and deferred 
revenue, other financial liabilities and other 
liabilities

Commitments and guarantees

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 249
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Material related party transactions are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 
 1,707 
 1,500 
Tata Steel IJmuiden BV

Tata Digital Private Limited

Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables and contract assets
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Short-term benefits

Dividend paid during the year

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the 
performance of individuals and market trends.
 
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as 
separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
23) No funds have been advanced/loaned/invested (from borrowed funds or from share premium or from any other sources / kind 
of funds) by the Group to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries), with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, 
security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
No funds have been received by the Group from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Parties), with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall (i) directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or 
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
24) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `13 crore and `12 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively.
25) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the Company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will assess the impact and its evaluation once the 
subject rules are notified. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the 
period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
26) On May 18, 2022, Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. acquired additional 6.8% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy 
Services (China) Co., Ltd. for a purchase consideration of `25 crore thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements 2022-23 | 250
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
27) On March 16, 2023, Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd., acquired control of 100 % equity interest in TCS Financial 
Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd., from TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited. The entities are engaged in the business of 
developing and selling computer software and providing information technology services. The transaction has been accounted as 
combination of entities under common control. There is no impact in the consolidated financial statements of the Group as the 
entities are under the same parent.
28) Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS liquidated w.e.f. July 27, 2022.
29) Dividends
 
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2023 include an amount of `22.00 per equity share towards final dividend for 
the year ended March 31,2022 and an amount of `91.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended 
March 31, 2023. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2022 include an amount of `15.00 per equity share towards 
final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the 
year ended March 31, 2022.
 
Dividends declared by the Company are based on profits available for distribution. On April 12, 2023, the Board of Directors of the 
Company have proposed a final dividend of `24.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2023 subject to the approval 
of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately `8,782 crore.

Standalone Financial Statements | 251
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited (the “Company”) which comprise 
the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2023, and the 
standalone statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in 
equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs 
of the Company as at 31 March 2023, and its profit and other 
comprehensive loss, changes in equity and its cash flows for the 
year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with 
Standalone Financial 
Statements 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act 
and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matter(s)
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts where revenue is recognized using percentage of completion method
Refer Note 4(a) and 10 to the standalone financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company inter alia engages in Fixed-price 
contracts, wherein, revenue is recognized using 
the percentage of completion computed as per the 
input method based on the Company’s estimate of 
contract costs.
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price 
contracts where the percentage of completion is 
used as a Key Audit Matter since –
there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud 
risk around the accuracy and existence 
of revenues recognised considering the 
customised and complex nature of these 
contracts and significant inputs of IT systems;
Our audit procedures included the following:
Obtained an understanding of the systems, processes and controls 
implemented by the Company for recording and computing revenue and 
the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue balances.
Involvement of our Information technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 
Assessed the IT environment in which the business systems operate 
and tested system controls over computation of revenue recognised;
 
ii. 
Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of cost and revenue 
reports generated by the system;

Standalone Financial Statements | 252
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
application of revenue recognition accounting 
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with customers) is complex and involves a 
number of key judgments and estimates 
mainly in identifying performance obligations, 
related transaction price and estimating the 
future cost-to-completion of these contracts, 
which is used to determine the percentage 
of completion of the relevant performance 
obligation;
these contracts may involve onerous 
obligations which requires critical assessment 
of foreseeable losses to be made by the 
Company; and
at year-end, significant amount of work in 
progress (Contract assets), related to these 
contracts are recognised on the balance 
sheet.
 
iii. 
Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and 
budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/
changes to costs incurred; and
 
iv. 
Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the 
estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective 
projects.
On selected specific and statistical samples of contracts, we tested that 
the revenue recognized is in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard including–
 
Evaluated the identification of performance obligations and the 
ascribed transaction price;
 
ii. 
For testing Company’s computation of the estimation of contract 
costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
 
 
assessed that the estimates of costs to complete were reviewed 
and approved by appropriate designated management 
personnel;
 
 
performed a retrospective analysis of costs incurred with 
estimated costs to identify significant variations and challenged 
whether those variations are required to be considered in 
estimating the remaining costs to complete the contract;
 
 
assessed the appropriateness of work in progress (contract 
assets) on balance sheet date by evaluating the underlying 
documentation to identify possible changes in estimated costs 
to complete the remaining performance obligations; and
 
 
inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to 
determine reasonableness of contract costs.
Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s annual 
report, but does not include the financial statements and 
auditor’s report(s) thereon. The Company’s annual report 
is expected to be made available to us after the date of this 
auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the 
Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, 
profit/ loss and other comprehensive income, changes in 
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of 
Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 

Standalone Financial Statements | 253
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of 
the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the company has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of standalone financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.

As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that:
 
 
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit.
 
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books.
 
 
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the standalone 
statement of changes in equity and the 
standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the books of 
account.
 
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act.
 
 
On the basis of the written representations 

Standalone Financial Statements | 254
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 
taken on record by the Board of Directors, none 
of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 
2023 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure B”.
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations as at 31 March 2023 on its 
financial position in its standalone financial 
statements - Refer income tax liabilities disclosed 
in the balance sheet along with Note 8(f) and 
Note 19 to the standalone financial statements.
 
 
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses.
 
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
 
 
(i) 
The management has represented that, 
to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(ii) The management has represented that, 
to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(iii) Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under subclause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided 
under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material 
misstatement.
 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by 
the Company during the year and until the 
date of this audit report is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
 
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year, in respect of the same declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with Section 123 
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of 
dividend.
 
 
 
As stated in note 25 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the 
Company has proposed final dividend for the year 
which is subject to the approval of the members 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
The dividend declared is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
 
 
As proviso to rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the 
Company only with effect from 1 April 2023, 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable.
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors during the current year 
is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 
of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is 
not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 
of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not 
prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the 
Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2023
 ICAI UDIN: 23060154BGXCZS4294

Standalone Financial Statements | 255
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i) 
(a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 
 
(B) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has a regular 
programme of physical verification of its Property, 
Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant 
and equipment are verified in a phased manner 
over a period of three years. In accordance with this 
programme, certain property, plant and equipment 
were verified during the year. In our opinion, this 
periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on 
such verification.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than immovable properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed 
in the standalone financial statements are held in the 
name of the Company.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during 
the year.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there are no proceedings 
initiated or pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami 
Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made 
thereunder.
(ii) (a) The inventory has been physically verified by the 
management during the year. In our opinion, the 
frequency of such verification is reasonable and 
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
procedures and coverage as followed by management 
were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on 
verification between the physical stocks and the book 
records that were more than 10% in the aggregate of 
each class of inventory.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five 
crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks on the basis of 
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly 
returns or statements filed by the Company with such 
banks are in agreement with the books of account of 
the Company. The Company has not been sanctioned 
any working capital limit from the financial institutions.
(iii) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records, the 
Company has made investments in other parties during 
the year. The Company has granted unsecured loans to 
a company and other parties and has granted unsecured 
advances in the nature of loans to other parties during 
the year, in respect of which the requisite information is 
as below. The Company has not made any investments 
in companies, firms or limited liability partnerships. The 
Company has not granted any loans, unsecured, to firms 
or limited liability partnerships and has not granted any 
advances in the nature of loans, unsecured, to companies, 
firms or limited liability partnerships during the year. The 
Company has not provided any guarantee or security 
or granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, 
secured, to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships 
or any other parties during the year.
 
(a) A. 
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not given any 
loans or advances in the nature of loans or stood 
guarantee or provided security to subsidiaries. 
The Company does not hold any investment in 
any joint ventures or associates.
 
 
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has given unsecured 
loans and unsecured advances in the nature of 
loans to parties other than subsidiaries as listed 
below. The Company has not stood guarantee 
or provided security to parties other than 
subsidiaries.

Standalone Financial Statements | 256
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Particulars
Guarantees
Security
Loans
Advances in nature of 
loans
Aggregate amount during the year
Subsidiaries*
Joint ventures*
Associates*
Others
` 7,588.90 Crores
` 196.35 Crores
Balance outstanding as at balance 
sheet date - 
Subsidiaries*
Joint ventures*
Associates*
Others*
` 12.59 Crores
` 262.39 Crores
 
 
 
*As per the Companies Act, 2013
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by 
us, in our opinion the investment made and the terms 
and conditions of the grant of loans and advances in 
the nature of loans during the year are, prima facie, 
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, in the case of loans given and 
in case of advances in the nature of loans given, in our 
opinion the repayment of principal and payment of 
interest has been stipulated and the repayments or 
receipts have been regular.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there is no overdue amount 
for more than ninety days in respect of loans given 
and advances in the nature of loan given.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there is no loan or advance in 
the nature of loan granted falling due during the year, 
which has been renewed or extended or fresh loans 
granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given 
to same parties.
 
(f) 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not granted 
any loans or advances in the nature of loans either 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms 
or period of repayment.
(iv) According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records, 
the Company has not given any loans, or provided any 
guarantee or security as specified under Section 185 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Company has not 
provided any guarantee or security as specified under 
Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, the 
Company has complied with the provisions of Section 186 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in relation to loans given and 
investments made.
(v) The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits from the public. 
Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Central Government has not prescribed the 
maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the 
Act for the products manufactured by it (and/or services 
provided by it). Accordingly, clause 3(vi) of the Order is not 
applicable.
(vii) (a) The Company does not have liability in respect of 
Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added 
tax during the year since effective 1 July 2017, these 
statutory dues has been subsumed into GST.
 
 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, in our opinion amounts 
deducted / accrued in the books of account in 
respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods 
and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State 
Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or 
other statutory dues have generally been regularly 
deposited with the appropriate authorities.
 
 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident 
Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty 
of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues were in 
arrears as at 31 March 2023 for a period of more than 
six months from the date they became payable.

Standalone Financial Statements | 257
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no statutory dues of Goods and Service Tax, Provident 
Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other 
statutory dues which have not been deposited by the Company on account of any dispute except for the following:
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
the dues
Amount 
(` in crores) 
Period to which the amount relates
Forum where dispute 
is pending
Remarks, 
if any
The Incometax Act, 1961
Incometax
4,181 Assessment Year - 2007-08, 2011-12, 2017-18, 2018-19
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals)
193 Assessment Year - 2006-07
Income-tax Appellate 
Tribunal
39 Assessment Year - 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2016-17
Assessing Officer 
/ National Faceless 
Assessment Centre
The Central 
Sales Tax Act, 
1956 and 
Value Added 
Tax Act
Sales tax 
and VAT
233 Financial Year - 1994-1995, 2004-2005, 2007-2008, 
2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 20122013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 
2017-2018
High Court
10 Financial Year - 1990-1991, 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 
2004-2005, 2005-2006, 2006-2007, 2011-2012, 20122013
Tribunal

Financial Year - 1995-1996, 1997-1998, 2004-2005, 
2011-2012, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Assistant 
Commissioner

Financial Year - 2008-2009, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 
2012-2013, 2015-2016, 2016-2017
Deputy Commissioner
18 Financial Year - 1997-1998, 2005-2006, 2013-2014, 
2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Joint Commissioner
The Finance 
Act, 1994
Service 
tax

Financial Year - 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 2004-2005, 
2008-09, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 20122013, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Commissioner 
Appeals
212 Financial Year - 2006-2007, 2007-2008, 2009-2010, 
2010-2011, 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 20152016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Tribunal
Goods and 
Service Tax 
Act
GST

Financial Year – 2020-21
Commissioner 
Appeals
 
 
** These amounts are net of amount paid/ adjusted under protest ` 327 crores.
(viii) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed 
any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the 
books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
(ix) (a) According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in 
the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not been 
declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or government authority.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given 
to us by the management, the Company has not 
obtained any term loans during the year. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the balance 
sheet of the Company, we report that no funds raised 
on short-term basis have been used for long-term 
purposes by the Company.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company, we report that 
the Company has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the obligations of 
its subsidiaries as defined under the Act. The Company 
does not hold any investment in any associate or joint 
venture (as defined under the Act) during the year 
ended 31 March 2023.
 
(f) 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries 
(as defined under the Act). The Company does not 
hold any investment in any associate or joint venture 
(as defined under the Act) during the year ended 31 
March 2023.
(x) (a) The Company has not raised any moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments). Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable.

Standalone Financial Statements | 258
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not made 
any preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
(xi) (a) Based on examination of the books and records of 
the Company and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, considering the principles 
of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, 
we report that no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during the 
course of the audit.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 
143 of the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
 
(c) We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures.
(xii) According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause 
3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the transactions with related 
parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the 
Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party 
transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements as required by the applicable accounting 
standards.
(xiv) (a) Based on information and explanations provided 
to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
 
(b) We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till date for the period under audit.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 
192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) (a) The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(b) The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) 
as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve 
Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order 
is not applicable.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the 
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016) has more than one CIC as part of the Group. The 
Group has six CICs as part of the Group.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xix) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors 
and management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe that 
any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that the Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when 
they fall due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
 
Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main 
audit report which explains that the other information 
comprising the information included in Company’s annual 
report is expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
(xx) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount 
under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the Act 
pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(b) In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and based on an 
independent legal opinion obtained by the Company, 
upon irrevocable transfer of funds by the Company 
to implementing agencies for designated multiyear projects undertaken through them, there is no 
unspent amount under sub-section (5) of Section 135 
of the Act pursuant to ongoing projects. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2023
 ICAI UDIN: 23060154BGXCZS4294

Standalone Financial Statements | 259
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the 
Company”) as of 31 March 2023 in conjunction with our audit of 
the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls were operating 
effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the 
“Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of standalone financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s 
assets that could have a material effect on the standalone 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2023
 ICAI UDIN: 23060154BGXCZS4294
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the standalone financial 
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 260
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Note
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
8(a)
 9,186 
 9,669 
Capital work-in-progress
8(a)
 1,103 
 1,146 
Right-of-use assets

 5,695 
 5,837 
Intangible assets
8(b)

 1,018 
Financial assets
Investments
6(a)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Trade receivables
 Billed
6(b)

 Unbilled

Loans
6(e)

Other financial assets
6(f)

Income tax assets (net)
 2,115 
 1,643 
Deferred tax assets (net)

 2,464 
 2,779 
Other assets
8(c)
 2,410 
 1,797 
Total non-current assets
 27,043 
 27,071 
Current assets
 
Inventories
8(d)

Financial assets
 Investments
6(a)
 35,738 
 29,262 
 Trade receivables
 
 Billed
6(b)
 35,534 
 29,852 
 
 Unbilled
 7,264 
 6,250 
 Cash and cash equivalents
6(c)
 1,462 
 8,197 
 Other balances with banks
6(d)
 3,081 
 5,495 
 Loans
6(e)

 5,653 
 Other financial assets
6(f)
 1,557 
 1,432 
Other assets
8(c)
 7,789 
 8,032 
Total current assets
92,784
 94,192 
TOTAL ASSETS
1,19,827
1,21,263
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
6(n)

Other equity

 74,172 
 76,807 
Total equity
 74,538 
 77,173 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
 4,698 
 4,879 
Other financial liabilities
6(i)

Employee benefit obligations

Deferred tax liabilities (net)

Unearned and deferred revenue

Total non-current liabilities
 5,965 
 6,189 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities

Trade payables
 Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises 
6(g)
 Dues of creditors other than small enterprises and micro enterprises 
6(h)
 13,768 
 10,082 
Other financial liabilities
6(i)
 6,948 
 5,826 
Unearned and deferred revenue
 2,962 
 3,013 
Other liabilities
8(e)
 3,113 
 7,033 
Provisions
8(f)

 1,377 
Employee benefit obligations

 3,022 
 2,844 
Income tax liabilities (net)
 8,271 
 6,750 
Total current liabilities
 39,324 
 37,901 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1,19,827
1,21,263
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 261
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31,2022
Revenue from operations

1,90,354
1,60,341
Other income

 5,328 
 7,486 
TOTAL INCOME
1,95,682
1,67,827
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses

 96,218 
 81,097 
Cost of equipment and software licences
13(a)
 1,416 
 1,010 
Finance costs

Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,940 
 3,522 
Other expenses
13(b)
 41,723 
 31,989 
TOTAL EXPENSES
1,43,992
1,18,104
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 51,690 
 49,723 
Tax expense
Current tax

 12,946 
 11,931 
Deferred tax 

 (362)
 (395)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
 12,584 
 11,536 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
 39,106 
 38,187 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans

Income tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit 
or loss
 (12)
(39)
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Net change in fair values of investments other than 
equity shares carried at fair value through OCI
 (679)
 (516)
 Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated as 
cash flow hedges 
(25)
(37)
 Net change in time value of derivatives designated as 
cash flow hedges

 (34)
Income tax on items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or 
loss

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)
(394)
(250)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
38,712 
 37,937 
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)

 106.88 
 103.24 
Weighted average number of equity shares
365,90,51,373
369,88,32,195
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 262
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL 
(` crore)
Balance as at April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year
Balance as at March 31, 2023

(` crore)
Balance as at April 1, 2021
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2021
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year*
Balance as at March 31, 2022

 (4)

*Refer note 6(n).
B. OTHER EQUITY 
(` crore)
 Reserves and surplus
 Items of other comprehensive income
 Total Equity
Capital 
reserve*
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
 Special Economic 
Zone re-investment 
reserve 
 Retained 
earnings 
 Investment 
revaluation 
reserve 
 Cash flow hedging reserve 
 Intrinsic value 
 Time value 
Balance as at April 1, 2022

 7,287 
 68,949 

(53)
 76,807 
Profit for the year
 39,106 
 39,106 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(442)
(19)

(394)
Total comprehensive income
 39,148 
(442)
(19)

 38,712 
Dividend
(41,347)
(41,347)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
8,380 
(8,380)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
(3,858)
3,858 
Balance as at March 31, 2023

 11,809 
 62,228 

(28)
 74,172 
Balance as at April 1, 2021

 2,538 
 70,928 

(27)
 74,424 
Profit for the year
 38,187 
 38,187 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(336)
(29)
(26)
(250)
Total comprehensive income
 38,328 
(336)
(29)
(26)
 37,937 
Dividend
(13,317)
(13,317)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
(49)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(4,192)
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares

(18,000)
(17,996)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
 9,407 
(9,407)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
(4,658)
 4,658 
Balance as at March 31, 2022

 7,287 
 68,949 

(53)
 76,807 
 
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
 
Gain of `42 crore and `141 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 263
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a) Capital reserve
 
The Company recognises profit and loss on purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity 
instruments to capital reserve.
(b) Capital redemption reserve
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve 
is created when company purchases its own shares out of 
free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the 
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred 
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(c) Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve 
is created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms 
of the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Company for 
acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per 
the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961. 
(d) Retained earnings
 
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated 
earnings of the Company as on the balance sheet date.
(e) Investment revaluation reserve
 
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses 
arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments 
on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated 
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss 
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
(f) Cash flow hedging reserve
 
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative 
effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in 
fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments 
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will 
be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period 
in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 264
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
 39,106 
 38,187 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,940 
 3,522 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables and 
advances (net)

Tax expense
12,584 
 11,536 
Net (gain) / loss on lease modification

(2)
Net gain on sub-lease
(7)
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
(185)
(119)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(27)
(25)
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
(209)
(186)
Interest income
(3,046)
(2,555)
Dividend income (including exchange impact)
(2,112)
(3,554)
Finance costs

Operating profit before working capital changes
 50,852 
 47,397 
Net change in
Inventories
(8)
(12)
Trade receivables
 
Billed
(5,817)
(4,761)
 
Unbilled
(1,157)
(644)
Loans and other financial assets

(152)
Other assets 
(384)

Trade payables
3,686 
 2,120 
Unearned and deferred revenue

Other financial liabilities
1,222 

Other liabilities and provisions
(654)

Cash generated from operations
 47,963 
 46,463 
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(10,934)
(10,336)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 37,029 
 36,127 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
(3,528)
(14,653)
Inter-corporate deposits placed
(7,580)
(13,655)
Purchase of investments
(1,22,721)
(70,826)
Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
(2,041)
(2,147)
Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets
(94)
(13)
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
(340)
(457)
Proceeds from bank deposits 
 5,930 
11,201 
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits 
 12,966 
18,560 
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments
1,15,825
69,451 
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 265
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Interest received
2,933 
 2,594 
Dividend received from subsidiaries
 1,866 
 3,554 
Net cash generated from investing activities
3,250 
3,642 
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
(1,006)
(935)
Interest paid
(697)
(478)
Dividend paid
(41,347)
(13,317)
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
(180)
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares
(18,000)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (47,224)
 (32,797)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 
 (6,945)
6,972 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 8,197 
 1,112 
Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
1,462 
8,197 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts

In deposit accounts 

 7,388 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit
 1,462 
 8,197 
*Represents values less than ₹ 0.50 crore.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
Refer note 13(c) for amount spent during the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 on construction / acquisition of any asset and 
other purposes relating to CSR activities.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 266
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate information
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS 
Limited” or “the Company”) provides IT services, consulting 
and business solutions and has been partnering with many 
of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive 
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and 
engineering services and solutions. This is delivered 
through its unique Location-Independent Agile delivery 
model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software 
development.
 
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at 
March 31, 2023, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding 
company owned 72.27% of the Company’s equity share 
capital.
 
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2023 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2023.
Statement of compliance
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as “Ind AS”) as prescribed under section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to 
time.
Basis of preparation
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Company has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
 
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from 
operating, investing and financing activities of the Company 
are segregated. The Company considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in Indian Rupee (`) which is the functional currency of the 
Company. Foreign currency transactions are recorded at 
exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing 
on the balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses 
arising on settlement and restatement are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
 
The significant accounting policies used in preparation of 
the standalone financial statements have been discussed in 
the respective notes.
Use of estimates and judgements 
 
The preparation of standalone financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management of the Company 
to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of standalone financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
 
The Company uses the following critical accounting 
estimates in preparation of its standalone financial 
statements:
(a) Revenue recognition
 
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using 
percentage-of-completion method. The Company uses 
judgement to estimate the future cost-to-completion of the 
contracts which is used to determine degree of completion 
of the performance obligation.
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
 
The Company reviews the useful life of property, plant 
and equipment at the end of each reporting period. This 
reassessment may result in change in depreciation expense 
in future periods.
(c) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
 
The Company reviews its carrying value of investments 
carried at cost (net of impairment, if any) annually, or more 
frequently when there is indication for impairment. If the 
recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is accounted for in the statement of profit 
and loss.
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 267
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
fair value is measured using valuation techniques including 
the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these 
models are taken from observable markets where possible, 
but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is 
required in establishing fair values. Judgements include 
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and 
volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could 
affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
(e) Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
 
The Company uses estimates and judgements based on 
the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, 
costs, allowances and disallowances which is exercised 
while determining the provision for income tax. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be 
utilised. Accordingly, the Company exercises its judgement 
to reassess the carrying amount of deferred tax assets at 
the end of each reporting period.
(f) 
Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
The Company estimates the provisions that have present 
obligations as a result of past events and it is probable 
that outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end 
of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the 
current best estimates.
 
The Company uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are recognised 
when there is a possible obligation arising from past events, 
the existence of which will be confirmed only by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the Company 
or a present obligation that arises from past events where 
it is either not probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate 
of the amount cannot be made. Contingent assets are 
neither recognised nor disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements.
(g) Employee benefits
 
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the nature of 
defined benefit requires the Company to use assumptions. 
These assumptions have been explained under employee 
benefits note.
(h) Leases
 
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a 
lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification 
of a lease requires significant judgement. The Company 
uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term 
(including anticipated renewals) and the applicable 
discount rate.
 
The Company determines the lease term as the noncancellable period of a lease, together with both periods 
covered by an option to extend the lease if the Company 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and periods 
covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Company 
is reasonably certain not to exercise that option. In 
assessing whether the Company is reasonably certain to 
exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an 
option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts 
and circumstances that create an economic incentive for 
the Company to exercise the option to extend the lease, 
or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease. The 
Company revises the lease term if there is a change in the 
non-cancellable period of a lease.
 
The discount rate is generally based on the incremental 
borrowing rate specific to the lease being evaluated or for a 
portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.
Recent pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard 
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to 
time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023, applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
The amendments require companies to disclose their 
material accounting policies rather than their significant 
accounting policies. Accounting policy information, 
together with other information, is material when it can 
reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary 
users of general purpose financial statements. The 
Company does not expect this amendment to have any 
significant impact in its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
The amendments clarify how companies account 
for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and 
decommissioning obligations. The amendments narrowed 
the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 
and 24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, 
give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences. The Company is evaluating the impact, if any, in 
its financial statements.
 
Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors
 
The amendments will help entities to distinguish between 
accounting policies and accounting estimates. The 
definition of a change in accounting estimates has been 
replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under 
the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary 
amounts in financial statements that are subject to 
measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting 
estimates if accounting policies require items in financial 
statements to be measured in a way that involves 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 268
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect 
this amendment to have any significant impact in its 
financial statements.
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability.
 
The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, to be cash 
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances 
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
 
Financial assets at amortised cost
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost if these financial assets are held within a business 
whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the 
financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.
 
The Company has made an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments 
not held for trading in other comprehensive income.
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss unless they are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial 
recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Investment in subsidiaries
 
Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
impairment loss, if any.
 
Financial liabilities
 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
 
Equity instruments
 
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual 
interest in the assets of the company after deducting all 
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company 
are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue 
cost.
 
Derivative accounting
 
Instruments in hedging relationship
 
 
The Company designates certain foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts as 
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange 
risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow 
hedges.
 
 
The Company uses hedging instruments that are 
governed by the policies of the Company which are 
approved by the Board of Directors. The policies 
provide written principles on the use of such financial 
derivatives consistent with the risk management 
strategy of the Company.
 
 
The hedge instruments are designated and 
documented as hedges at the inception of the 
contract. The Company determines the existence 
of an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no 
longer expected to occur, then the amounts that have 
been accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the 
designated hedging instrument is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated under 
the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
 
 
The Company separates the intrinsic value and 
time value of an option and designates as hedging 
instruments only the change in intrinsic value of the 
option. The change in fair value of the intrinsic value 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 269
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
and time value of an option is recognised in the other 
comprehensive income and accounted as a separate 
component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified 
into the statement of profit and loss when the related 
hedged items affect profit and loss.
 
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or 
loss recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity till that time remains and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss when 
the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and 
loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes 
ineffective.
 
Instruments not in hedging relationship
 
 
The Company enters into contracts that are effective 
as hedges from an economic perspective, but they 
do not qualify for hedge accounting. The change in 
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet 
whether a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired. Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses 
to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company 
recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets 
and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a 
financing transaction. In determining the allowances 
for doubtful trade receivables, the Company has used 
a practical expedient by computing the expected credit 
loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision 
matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical 
credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward looking 
information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on 
the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance 
rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial 
assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at an 
amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the 
credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly 
since initial recognition.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 270
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(a) Investments
 
Investments consist of the following:
 
Investments – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in subsidiaries
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Investments designated at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
Taj Air Limited

Less: Impairment in value of investments
 (19)
 (19)
 2,405 
 2,405 
 
Investments - Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)
 1,147 

Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
 26,128 
 25,667 
Corporate bonds (quoted)
 3,110 
 1,242 
Investments carried at amortised cost
Certificate of deposits (quoted)
 2,955 

Commercial papers (quoted)
 2,398 

Treasury bills (quoted)

 35,738 
 29,262 
 
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility and with manager to the buy-back 
amounting to `1,650 crore and `3,560 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 35,738 
 29,262 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net of impairment)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 35,736 
 29,263 
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Certificate of deposits
 2,951 

Commercial papers
 2,400 

Treasury bills

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 271
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Investment in subsidiaries
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
212,27,83,424
UYU

TCS Iberoamerica SA

15,75,300
INR

APTOnline Limited
1,300
EUR
 - Tata Consultancy Services Belgium

66,000
EUR
 1,000 Tata Consultancy Services 
Netherlands BV

1,000
SEK

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

EUR
 - Tata Consultancy Services 
Deutschland GmbH

20,000
USD

Tata America International 
Corporation

75,82,820
SGD

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific 
Pte Ltd.

3,72,58,815
AUD

10,00,001
GBP

Diligenta Limited

1,000
USD
Tata Consultancy Services Canada 
Inc.

CAD
70,653.61
Tata Consultancy Services Canada 
Inc.

51,00,000
INR

C-Edge Technologies Limited

8,90,000
INR

MP Online Limited

1,40,00,000
ZAR

Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) 
(PTY) Ltd.

18,89,005
INR

MahaOnline Limited

 - QAR
 - Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.

10,00,000
INR

1,00,500
GBP
0.00001
Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited

2,50,00,000
EUR

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland 
Limited

10,00,000
INR

TCS Foundation
 2,405 
 2,405 
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Equity instruments designated at 
fair value through OCI
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
1,90,00,000
INR

Taj Air Limited

Less : Impairment in value of 
investments
 (19)
 (19)
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 272
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year

Net loss arising on revaluation of investments other than equities carried at fair value 
through other comprehensive income
(675)
(516)
Deferred tax relating to net loss arising on revaluation of investments other than 
equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive income

Net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and loss on sale of 
investments other than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income
(4)
Deferred tax relating to net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and 
loss on sale of investments other than equities carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Balance at the end of the year 

(b) Trade receivables - Billed
 
Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Trade receivables - Billed – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
(646)
(842)
Considered good

Ageing for trade receivables - billed – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables - Billed
(646)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 273
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Ageing for trade receivables - billed – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables - Billed
(842)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables - Billed
 35,731 
 30,010 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
(275)
(173)
Considered good
 35,456 
 29,837 
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed
(178)
(122)
Credit impaired

 35,534 
29,852 
 
Above balances of trade receivables - billed include balances with related parties (Refer note 20).
 
Ageing for trade receivables - billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 28,935 
 5,292 
1,124

 35,693 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered 
good

 29,001 
 5,334 
1,136

 35,987 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables - Billed
(453)
 35,534 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 7,264 
 42,798 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 274
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Ageing for trade receivables - billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 23,985 
 4,069 

 29,986 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired

23,985 
 4,069 

 30,147 
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables - Billed
(295)
 29,852 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 6,250 
 36,102 
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts

In deposit accounts 

 7,388 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit
 1,462 
 8,197 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(d) Other balances with banks
 
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks

Short-term bank deposits
 2,428 
 5,300 
 3,081 
 5,495 
 
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments, margin money of derivative 
contracts and unclaimed dividends.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 275
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(e) Loans
 
Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Loans – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Loans and advances to employees

Loans – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits
 5,386 
Loans and advances to employees

Credit impaired
Loans and advances to employees

Less: Allowance on loans and advances to employees
(31)
(22)

 5,653 
 
Inter-corporate deposits yield fixed interest rate and are placed with financial institutions, who are authorized to accept and use 
such inter-corporate deposits as per regulations applicable to them.
(f) 
Other financial assets
 
Other financial assets consist of the following:
 
Other financial assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Security deposits

Others

Other financial assets – Current 
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Security deposits

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

Interest receivable

Others

 1,557 
 1,432 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 276
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(g) Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises
 
The disclosure pursuant to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) for dues to micro 
enterprises and small enterprises as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 is as under:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Dues remaining unpaid to any supplier
 
Principal
 
Interest on the above
Amount of interest paid in terms of section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006, along with 
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during 
each accounting year

Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under 
section 23 of MSMED Act, 2006
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(h) Trade Payables
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
 3,774 
 4,715 

8,556 
Disputed dues - Others

 3,774 
 4,715 

 8,585 
Accrued expenses
 5,183 
 13,768 
 
*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
2,673 
2,541 

5,367 
Disputed dues - Others

 2,673 
 2,541 

 5,399 
Accrued expenses
 4,683 
 10,082 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 277
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(i) 
Other financial liabilities
 
Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
 
Other financial liabilities – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital creditors

Others

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, by the seller of 

 
Other financial liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Accrued payroll
 4,970 
 3,914 
Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts
 1,075 

Others

 6,948 
 5,826 
(j) 
Financial instruments by category
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
 Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
 Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
 Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
 Amortised 
cost 
 Total 
carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 1,462 
 1,462 
Bank deposits
 2,428 
 2,428 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments (other than in 
subsidiary)
 1,147 
 29,238 
 5,353 
 35,738 
Trade receivables
 
Billed
 35,659 
 35,659 
 
Unbilled
 7,460 
 7,460 
Loans

Other financial assets

 1,899 
 2,089 
 1,147 
 29,238 

 55,249 
85,824
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 13,768 
 13,768 
Lease liabilities
 5,659 
 5,659 
Other financial liabilities

 7,147 
 7,288 

 26,574 
 26,715 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 278
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
 Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
 Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
 Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
 Amortised 
cost 
 Total 
carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
8,197 
8,197 
Bank deposits
5,300 
5,300 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments (other than in 
subsidiary)

26,909 
 1,469 
29,262 
Trade receivables
 
Billed
29,942 
29,942 
 
Unbilled
6,303 
6,303 
Loans
5,661 
5,661 
Other financial assets

1,670 
2,058 

26,909 

58,737 
86,918 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
10,082 
10,082 
Lease liabilities
5,855 
5,855 
Other financial liabilities

6,216 
6,344 

22,153 
22,281 
 
Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `5,386 crore, with original maturity period within 10 months.
 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, approximate the fair 
value due to their nature. Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other financial assets and other financial liabilities 
which are subsequently measured at amortised cost also approximate the fair value due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair 
value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried at amortised cost is `5,351 crore and `1,470 crore as at 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively
(k) Fair value hierarchy
 
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable 
or unobservable and consists of the following three levels: 
 
Level 1 – Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 
Level 2 – Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
 
Level 3 – Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in 
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market 
transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
 
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 279
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that 
are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
 1,147 
 1,147 
Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
 26,128 
 26,128 
Corporate bonds
 3,110 
 3,110 
Certificate of deposits
 2,951 
 2,951 
Commercial papers
 2,400 
 2,400 
Treasury bills
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

 35,736 

 35,926 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units

Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
25,667 
25,667 
Corporate bonds
1,242 
1,242 
Certificate of deposits

Commercial papers

Treasury bills

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

29,263 

29,651 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(l) 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity
 
The Company’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the 
costs are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations. 
 
The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk 
management plan of the Company which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Under 
the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Company uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 280
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount of 
contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount of 
contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
US Dollar

 1,635 

Great Britain Pound

Euro

Australian Dollar

 (21)
Canadian Dollar

 (1)
 
The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Intrinsic value
Time value
Intrinsic value
Time value
Balance at the beginning of the year

(53)

(27)
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit or loss on occurence of 
forecasted hedge transactions
 (376)

(636)

Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to profit or loss on 
occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions

 (144)

(122)
Change in the fair value of effective portion of cash flow 
hedges

 (456)

(559)
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of effective portion of 
cash flow hedges
 (84)

 (131)

Balance at the end of the year

(28)

(53)
 
The Company has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by way of foreign exchange forward, currency 
options and futures contracts. As at March 31, 2023 and 2022, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated to 
`46,102 crore and `46,392 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of `12 crore and 
`158 crore.
 
Exchange loss of `1,159 crore and gain of `645 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the years ended 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `112 crore and gain of `111 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for 
the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Net loss on derivative instruments of `20 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve as at March 31, 2023, is expected to be 
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2024. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow 
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2023.
 
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on the Company’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation 
/ depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign currencies
(387)
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies

2,034

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 281
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(m) Financial risk management
 
The Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which 
may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which covers risks 
associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of 
the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Company.
 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of 
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
 
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
 
 
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the statement of profit and loss and other 
comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets / liabilities 
are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company. Considering the countries and economic 
environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in 
those countries.
 
 
The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, 
any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may 
impact the Company’s revenue in international business.
 
 
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
 
 
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional currency of the 
Company.
 
 
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures of the Company as of the date of balance sheet 
which could affect the statements of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as 
indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,747 

 2,736 
Net financial liabilities
 (12,419)
 (723)
 (1,923)
 (1,108)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `1,016 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2023.
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2022: 
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets

 1,709 
Net financial liabilities
 (8,981)
 (513)
 (1,403)
 (1,049)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `949 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2022.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 282
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Interest rate risk
 
 
 
The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Company is not 
significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
 
 
Credit risk
 
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the 
contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of 
creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of 
customers on a continuous basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit.
 
 
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally consist of trade receivables, loans, 
investments, derivative financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial assets. Bank 
deposits include an amount of `2,428 crore held with three banks having high credit rating which is individually in excess 
of 10% or more of the Company’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2023. None of the other financial instruments of the 
Company result in material concentration of credit risk.
 
 
Exposure to credit risk 
 
 
 
The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk was `90,655 crore and `90,388 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, being the 
total of the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments excluding equity and preference 
investments, trade receivables, loans, contract assets and other financial assets.
 
 
 
The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of 
outstanding trade receivable and contract assets as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
 
 
Geographic concentration of credit risk
 
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Gross%
Net%
Gross%
Net%
United States of America
 54.14 
 55.13 
 52.43 
 53.78 
India
 12.03 
 10.37 
 12.73 
 10.68 
United Kingdom
 15.48 
 15.80 
 16.47 
 16.84 
 
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on 
the location of the customers.
 
 
 
The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was 
`98 crore and `96 crore, respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful trade receivables is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,137 
 1,082 
Change during the year

Bad debts written off
(137)
(39)
Translation Exchange difference

(2)
Balance at the end of the year
1,099 
1,137 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 283
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Liquidity risk
 
 
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk 
management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company 
consistently generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and 
when they fall due.
 
 
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(` crore)
March 31, 2023
 Due in 1st 
year 
 Due in 2nd 
year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 13,768 
13,768 
Lease liabilities
 1,333 
 1,129 
 2,430 
 2,531 
7,423 
Other financial liabilities
 6,828 

7,180 
21,929 
1,171 
2,731 
2,540 
28,371 
Derivative financial liabilities


22,070 
1,171 
2,731 
2,540 
28,512 
(` crore)
March 31, 2022
 Due in 1st 
year 
 Due in 2nd 
year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
10,082 
10,082 
Lease liabilities
 1,345 
1,186 
2,460 
 2,732 
7,723 
Other financial liabilities
5,721 

6,248 
17,148 
1,480 
2,688 
2,737 
24,053 
Derivative financial liabilities


17,276 
1,480 
2,688 
2,737 
24,181 
(n) Equity instruments
 
The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Authorised 
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each)

Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2022: 365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each)

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder value, safeguard business continuity and support 
the growth of the Company. The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term 
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The 
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 284
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up 
equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share in the previous year. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.
 
Reconciliation of number of shares
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance
365,90,51,373

369,90,51,373

Shares extinguished on buy-back
(4,00,00,000)
 (4)
Closing balance
365,90,51,373

365,90,51,373

II. 
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
 
 
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per 
share held and carry a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding.
 
III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Holding company
264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 264,43,17,117 equity shares) 
are held by Tata Sons Private Limited

Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company
7220 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 7,220 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Industries Limited*
10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 10,14,172 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Investment Corporation Limited*
46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 46,798 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Steel Limited*
766 equity shares (March 31, 2022: 766 equity shares) are held by The Tata 
Power Company Limited*

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.
 
IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company
264,43,17,117
264,43,17,117
% of shareholding
72.27%
72.27%

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 285
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Equity shares movement during the 5 years preceding March 31, 2023
 
 
Equity shares issued as bonus
 
 
 
The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred 
from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in three 
month period ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders 
through postal ballot.
 
 
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back
 
 
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
January 6, 2021.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
September 26, 2018.
 
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
264,43,17,117
72.27%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
Total
264,43,17,117
72.27%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
264,43,17,117
72.27%
266,91,25,829
72.16%
0.11%
Total
264,43,17,117
72.27%
266,91,25,829
72.16%
0.11%
Leases
 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
 
Company as a lessee
 
The Company accounts for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the 
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of 
the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components. 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 286
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Company recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term at the lease 
commencement date. The cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial 
measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the 
commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use 
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
The Company measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date of the lease. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably 
similar characteristics, the Company, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the incremental borrowing rate specific to the 
lease or the incremental borrowing rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed payments, variable 
lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price of a purchase option where the Company is reasonably certain to 
exercise that option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option 
to terminate the lease. The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the 
lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect 
any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments. The Company recognises the 
amount of the re-measurement of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset and statement of 
profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification. Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Company recognises any remaining amount of the 
re-measurement in statement of profit and loss.
 
The Company has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease 
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
Company as a lessor 
 
At the inception of the lease the Company classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease. The 
Company recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In 
case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate 
of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Company is an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in 
the head lease and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use 
asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the 
Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease. 
 
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with 
customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
 
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings

 4,608 
Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

 5,695 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 287
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land

Buildings

 4,860 
Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles
 1,027 
 5,837 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,034 

Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

 1,099 
 1,057 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Interest on lease liabilities is `421 crore and `451 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
The Company incurred `211 crore and `162 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards expenses 
relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The total cash outflow for leases is `1,732 crore and `1,561 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, 
including cash outflow for short term and low value leases.
 
The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of 
future cash outflows for such extension periods is `786 crore and `722 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary 
course.
 
The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities 
(a) Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
 
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at 
the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 288
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings
20 years
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years
Computer equipment
4 years
Vehicles
4 years
Office equipment
2-5 years
Electrical installations
4-10 years
Furniture and fixtures
5 years
 
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
 
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 289
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022

 7,737 
 1,885 

 9,925 

 2,395 
 1,872 
 1,512 
 26,436 
Additions

 1,291 

 1,904 
Disposals
 (5)
 (8)
 (269)
 (3)
 (54)
 (9)
 (12)
 (360)
Cost as at March 31, 2023

 7,966 
 1,925 

 10,947 

 2,492 
 1,926 
 1,553 
 27,980 
Accumulated depreciation as 
at April 1, 2022
(3,286)
(1,221)
(366)
(7,061)
(33)
(2,085)
(1,367)
(1,348)
(16,767)
Depreciation
 (393)
 (127)
 (78)
 (1,386)
 (4)
 (186)
 (130)
 (81)
 (2,385)
Disposals

Accumulated depreciation as 
at March 31, 2023
 (3,675)
 (1,340)
 (444)
 (8,179)
 (34)
 (2,217)
 (1,488)
 (1,417)
 (18,794)
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2023

 4,291 

 2,768 

 9,186 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,103 
Total
 10,289 
 *`1,904 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2023.
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2021

 7,688 
 1,817 

 8,781 

 2,302 
 1,883 
 1,509 
 25,057 
Additions

 1,606 

 2,012 
Disposals
 (2)
 (18)
 (1)
 (462)
 (1)
 (67)
 (44)
 (38)
 (633)
Cost as at March 31, 2022

 7,737 
 1,885 

 9,925 

 2,395 
 1,872 
 1,512 
 26,436 
Accumulated depreciation as 
at April 1, 2021
(2,897)
(1,108)
(293)
(6,349)
(31)
(2,001)
(1,270)
(1,287)
(15,236)
Depreciation
 (391)
 (131)
 (73)
 (1,172)
 (3)
 (151)
 (140)
 (99)
 (2,160)
Disposals

Accumulated depreciation as 
at March 31, 2022
 (3,286)
 (1,221)
 (366)
 (7,061)
 (33)
 (2,085)
 (1,367)
 (1,348)
 (16,767)
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2022

 4,451 

 2,864 

 9,669 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,146 
Total
 10,815 
 *`2,012 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022. 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 290
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Capital work-in-progress
 
 
Capital work-in-progress ageing
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,103 

 1,103 
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,146 

 1,146 
 
 
Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects 
are executed as per rolling annual plan.
 
(b) Intangible assets
 
 
Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment, if any.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software licences which are amortised over licence period 
which equates the economic useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic 
useful life.
 
 
Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2022
 1,530 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (50)
Cost as at March 31, 2023
 1,727 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2022
 (512)
Amortisation
 (456)
Disposals / Derecognised

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2023
 (918)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2023

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 291
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2021

Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (11)
Cost as at March 31, 2022
 1,530 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2021
 (218)
Amortisation
 (305)
Disposals / Derecognised

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2022
 (512)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022
 1,018 
 
 
The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2023 is as follows: 
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Amortisation expense

(c) Other assets
 
 
Other assets consist of the following:
 
 
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
 1,907 
 1,197 
Contract fulfillment costs

Others

 2,410 
 1,797 
Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited
Saankhya Labs Private Limited

Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 292
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
 
Other assets – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Considered good
Advance to suppliers

Advance to related parties

Contract assets
 4,678 
3,334 
Prepaid expenses
 1,332 
2,735 
Prepaid rent

Contract fulfillment costs

Indirect taxes recoverable

1,001 
Others

Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers

Other advances

Less: Allowance on doubtful assets
(4)
(4)
 7,789 
 8,032 
Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Tata Sons Private Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A.,De C.V.

Titan Company Limited

Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `271 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at 
March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
 
 
Contract fulfillment costs of `631 crore and `564 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, have 
been amortised in the standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the changes in contract asset.
 
(d) Inventories
 
 
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components, b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and 
d) Finished goods. Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies 
and components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Company 
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
 
 
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components

Finished goods and work-in-progress

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 293
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(e) Other liabilities
 
 
Other liabilities consist of the following:
 
 
Other liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Advance received from customers

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory liabilities 
 2,429 
 2,271 
Tax liability on buy-back of equity shares
 4,192 
Others

 3,113 
 7,033 
 
(f) 
Provisions
 
 
Provisions consist of the following:
 
 
Provisions – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)

 1,249 
Provision for foreseeable loss

Other provisions

 1,377 
Other equity
 
Other equity consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital reserve*
Capital redemption reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer from retained earnings

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
Opening balance
 7,287 
 2,538 
 
Transfer from retained earnings
8,380 
 9,407 
 
Transfer to retained earnings
(3,858)
(4,658)
 11,809 
 7,287 
Retained earnings
 
Opening balance
 68,949 
 70,928 
 
Profit for the year
39,106 
 38,187 
 
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(49)
 
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(4,192)
 
Buy-back of equity shares
(17,996)
 
Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
3,858 
 4,658 
1,11,955
 91,677 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 294
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
 
Less: Appropriations
 
 
Dividend on equity shares
 41,347 
 13,317 
 
 
Transfer to capital redemption reserve

Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
8,380 
 9,407 
 62,228 
 68,949 
Investment revaluation reserve
 
Opening balance 

Change during the year (net)
(442)
(336)

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l))
 
Opening balance
(26)

Change during the year (net)

(55)
(20)
(26)
74,172 
76,807 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
10) Revenue recognition
 
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Company offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc.
 
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined over the period of performance.
 
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer.
 
The solutions offered by the Company may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Company is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
 
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 295
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Company’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Company assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
 
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
 
The Company exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a 
period of time. The Company considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who 
controls the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of 
such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
 
Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at arm’s length.
 
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
 
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified 
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of 
time is required, as per contractual terms.
 
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
 
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress 
payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
 
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
 
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract specification and requirements. The Company reviews 
modification to contract in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price could be allocated to a new 
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is 
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
 
The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
 
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Consultancy services
1,88,748
1,59,106
Sale of equipment and software licences
 1,606 
 1,235 
1,90,354
1,60,341

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 296
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
 68,240 
 58,614 
Manufacturing 
 16,905 
 14,576 
Retail and Consumer Business
 33,169 
 26,966 
Communication, Media and Technology
 33,606 
 28,778 
Life Sciences and Healthcare
 22,398 
 18,341 
Others
 16,036 
 13,066 
1,90,354
1,60,341
 
Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Americas
 North America
1,13,208
 90,630 
 Latin America

Europe
 United Kingdom
 30,676 
 27,595 
 Continental Europe
 19,209 
 17,595 
Asia Pacific
 12,017 
 11,178 
India
 10,941 
 9,547 
Middle East and Africa
 3,921 
 3,482 
1,90,354
1,60,341
 
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
 
Information about major customers
 
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue during the years ended March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022.
 
While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially) 
satisfied performance obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise those revenues, the 
Company has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Company has not disclosed the aggregate transaction 
price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised 
corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts.
 
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, 
changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc). 
The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `1,13,145 crore 
out of which 55.41% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from 
contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 297
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 3,470 
 3,051 
Invoices raised that were included in the contract assets balance at the beginning of 
the year
 (2,632)
 (2,464)
Increase due to revenue recognised during the year, excluding amounts billed during 
the year
 3,826 
 2,828 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 4,831 
 3,470 
 
Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
 3,573 
 3,161 
Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liability balance at the 
beginning of the year
 (2,643)
 (2,311)
Increase due to invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as revenue 
during the year
 2,589 
 2,735 
Translation exchange difference

 (12)
Balance at the end of the year
 3,604 
 3,573 
 
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Contracted price
1,93,451
1,62,898
Reductions towards variable consideration components
 (3,097)
 (2,557)
Revenue recognised
1,90,354
1,60,341
 
The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.
11) Other income
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest method.
 
Other income consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
 3,046 
 2,555 
Dividend income
 2,106 
 3,548 
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments carried at fair value through 
profit or loss

Net gain on sale of investments other than equity shares carried at fair value through 
OCI

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Net gain / (loss) on lease modification
(3)

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 298
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net gain on sub-lease

Net foreign exchange gain / (loss)
(173)
 1,068 
Rent income

Other income

 5,328 
 7,486 
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits

Interest on financial assets carried at amortised cost

Interest on financial assets carried at fair value through OCI
 2,131 
1,818 
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds)

Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from subsidiaries
 2,106 
 3,548 
12) Employee benefits
 
Defined benefit plans
 
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the 
changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and 
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the 
entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
 
The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which 
are treated as defined benefit plans.
 
Defined contribution plans
 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to 
such benefits.
 
The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined contribution plans to its employees which are 
treated as defined contribution plans.
 
Short-term employee benefits
 
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal 
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
 
Compensated absences
 
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date. Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services are 
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 299
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Salaries, incentives and allowances
 87,049 
 73,115 
Contributions to provident and other funds
 6,450 
 5,734 
Staff welfare expenses
 2,719 
 2,248 
 96,218 
 81,097 
 
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
 
Employee benefit obligations – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Foreign defined benefit plans

Other employee benefit obligations

Employee benefit obligations – Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Compensated absences
 2,991 
2,802 
Other employee benefit obligations

 3,022 
2,844 
 
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
 
Gratuity and pension
 
In accordance with Indian law, the Company operates a scheme of gratuity which is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity 
plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon 
completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a trust. Trustees administer contributions 
made to the trust. Certain overseas branches of the Company also provide for retirement benefit plans in accordance with the 
local laws.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 300
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Change in benefit obligations
Benefit obligations, beginning 
of the year
 4,464 

 4,490 
 4,313 

 4,333 
Translation exchange difference

Changes due to inter-company 
transfers
 (3)
 (3)
 (3)
 (3)
Service cost

Interest cost

Remeasurement of the net 
defined benefit liability
 (158)

 (157)
 (190)

 (185)
Benefits paid
 (502)
 (6)
 (508)
 (488)
 (5)
 (493)
Benefit obligations, end of the 
year
 4,643 

 4,672 
 4,464 

 4,490 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, 
beginning of the year
 5,517 

 5,518 
 4,704 

 4,705 
Changes due to inter-company 
transfers
 (3)
 (3)
 (3)
 (3)
Interest income

Employers’ contributions
 1,056 
 1,056 

Benefits paid
 (502)
 (502)
 (488)
 (488)
Remeasurement - return on 
plan assets excluding amount 
included in interest income
 (103)
 (103)
 (5)
 (5)
Fair value of plan assets, end of 
the year
 6,389 

 6,390 
 5,517 

 5,518 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over 
obligations
 (28)
 (28)
 (25)
 (25)
Surplus of plan assets over 
obligations
 1,746 
 1,746 
 1,053 
 1,053 
 1,746 
 (28)
 1,718 
 1,053 
 (25)
 1,028 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 301
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Category of assets
Corporate bonds
 1,832 
 1,832 
 1,696 
1,696 
Equity instruments

Government bonds and 
securities
 2,917 
 2,917 
2,624 
2,624 
Insurer managed funds
 1,387 

 1,388 

Bank balances

Others

6,389 

6,390 
5,517 

5,518 
 
Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Funded
Foreign 
plans 
Unfunded
Total
Service cost

Net interest on net defined 
benefit asset
 (94)

 (93)
(38)
(38)
Net periodic gratuity / pension 
cost

Actual return on plan assets

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023 
 Domestic 
plans Funded 
 Foreign plans 
Funded 
 Foreign plans 
Unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions

Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (164)
 (3)
 (167)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
 (24)

 (21)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
 (158)

 (157)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount 
included in interest income

 (55)

 (54)

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 302
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Domestic 
plans Funded 
 Foreign plans 
Funded 
 Foreign plans 
Unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions
(20)

 (18)
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions
(165)
 (1)
 (166)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
(5)

 (1)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
 (190)

 (185)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount 
included in interest income

 (185)

 (180)
 
The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Discount rate 
7.50%
3.90%-4.80%
7.00%
1.50%-2.70%
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered 
employees
6.00%
1.95%-3.62%
6.00%
2.24%-3.80%
Rate of return on plan assets
7.50%
3.90%-4.80%
7.00%
1.50%-2.70%
Weighted average duration of defined benefit 
obligations
7 Years
3-8 Years
8 years
3-6.4 years
 
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India.
 
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to measure the Company’s defined benefit plan 
obligations as at March 31, 2023. The Company does not expect to contribute to defined benefit plan obligations funds for year 
ending March 31, 2024 in view of adequate surplus plan assets as at March 31, 2023.
 
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligations are discount rate and expected 
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Increase of 0.50%
 (121)
 (159)
Decrease of 0.50%

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as 
follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Increase of 0.50%

Decrease of 0.50%
 (123)
 (161)

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 303
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
 
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligations has been calculated 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the 
defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
 
Each year an Asset - Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are 
analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.
 
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31, 2023 as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Defined benefit 
obligations

2029-2033
 2,106 
 
Provident fund
 
In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of the Company in India are entitled to receive benefits under the provident 
fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to a trust set up by the Company 
to manage the investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit plan as the 
Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest rate declared 
by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government administered 
pension fund. The contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in 
statement of profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund 
liabilities on the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions as mentioned below, there 
is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected 
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered 
provident fund.
 
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fair value of plan assets
25,511 
22,814 
Present value of defined benefit obligations
(25,511)
(22,814)
Net excess / (shortfall)
 
The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds.
 
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the deterministic 
approach are as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Discount rate
7.50%
7.00%
Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio
7 Years
8 years
Guaranteed rate of return
8.15%
8.10%
 
The Company expensed `1,614 crore and `1,372 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards 
provident fund.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 304
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Superannuation
 
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Company 
makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Company recognises such contributions as an 
expense when incurred. The Company has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
 
The Company expensed `278 crore and `271 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards 
Employees’ Superannuation Fund.
 
Foreign defined contribution plan
 
The Company expensed `1,070 crore and `885 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards foreign 
defined contribution plans.
13) Cost recognition
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
 
The costs of the Company are broadly categorised in employee benefit expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, 
depreciation and amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include fees to external consultants, 
facility expenses, travel expenses, communication expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material 
such as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
 
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
 
 
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components consumed

Equipment and software licences purchased
 1,381 

 1,418 
 1,013 
Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock

Less: Closing stock

 (2)
 (3)
 1,416 
 1,010 
 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
(b) Other expenses
 
 
Other expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Fees to external consultants
 25,539 
 19,338 
Facility expenses
 2,178 
 1,707 
Travel expenses
 2,100 
 1,361 
Communication expenses
 1,588 
 1,303 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables 
and advances (net)

Other expenses
 10,208 
 8,173 
 41,723 
 31,989 
 
 
Other expenses include `4,777 crore and `3,733 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards 
sales, marketing and advertisement expenses and `2,544 crore and `1,708 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 
2022, respectively, towards project expenses.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 305
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
(c) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022

Amount required to be spent by the company during the year

Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above

Shortfall at the end of the year

Total of previous years shortfall

Reason for shortfall

Nature of CSR activities
Disaster Relief, Education, Skilling, 
Employment, Entrepreneurship, Health, 
Wellness and Water, Sanitation and 
Hygiene, Heritage

Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per 
relevant Accounting Standard:
Contribution to TCS Foundation in relation to CSR expenditure

14) Finance costs
 
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest on lease liabilities

Interest on tax matters

Other interest costs

15) Income taxes
 
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income taxes
 
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company having its branches in India and overseas where it 
operates. The current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax relief 
available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
 
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred income taxes
 
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 306
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
 
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of 
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after 
the tax holiday ends.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
 
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be 
available for set off against future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the balance 
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will 
be realised.
 
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
 13,623 
 12,912 
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years
 (677)
 (981)
 12,946 
 11,931 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year
 (362)
 (395)
Deferred tax benefit pertaining to prior years
 (362)
 (395)
 12,584 
 11,536 
 
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in statement of 
profit and loss is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit before taxes
 51,690 
 49,723 
Indian statutory income tax rate
34.94%
34.94%
Expected income tax expense
 18,063 
 17,375 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported 
income tax expense
Tax holidays
 (5,097)
 (4,604)
Income exempt from tax
 (736)
 (1,240)
Undistributed earnings in branches

 (232)
Tax on income at different rates

 1,107 
Tax pertaining to prior years
 (677)
 (981)
Others (net)

Total income tax expense
 12,584 
 11,536 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 307
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
The Company benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax 
holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit 
which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from 
export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profit or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits or 
gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011 profits from units set up 
under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from other 
comprehensive income
Adjustments 
/ utilisation
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

(1)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised 
cost

MAT credit entitlement

(974)
Branch profit tax
(77)
(58)
(135)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at 
fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(320)

(83)
Lease liabilities

Others 

2,650 

(974)
2,274 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(135)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(83)
(83)
Lease liabilities

Others 

2,464 

2,274 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 308
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from other 
comprehensive income
Adjustments 
/ utilisation
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges
(8)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised 
cost

MAT credit entitlement
1,710 
(736)

Branch profit tax
(310)

(77)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at 
fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(500)

(320)
Lease liabilities

(29)

Others 

(23)

 2,795 

 (736)
 2,650 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement

Branch profit tax

(77)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(320)
(320)
Lease liabilities

Others 

2,779 

2,650 
 
Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Company is liable to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be 
carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT is recognised as a deferred tax 
asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset 
will be realised.
 
Direct tax contingencies
 
The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other jurisdictions where it operates. 
The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation or eligibility of tax incentives and 
allowances and characterisation of fees for services received. The Company has recognised contingent liability in respect of tax 
demands received from direct tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions of `1,471 crore and `1,616 crore as at March 31, 
2023 and 2022, respectively. These demand orders are being contested by the Company based on the management evaluation 
and advise of tax consultants. In respect of tax contingencies of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 309
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
 
The Company periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax authorities related to the Company’s operations in 
the jurisdictions it operates in. The Company has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent 
income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
 
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India, tax filings from fiscal 2020 
are generally subject to examination by the tax authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation applies 
to fiscals 2019 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation 
generally applies to fiscal 2019 and earlier.
16) Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive 
securities in any of the periods presented.
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit for the year (` crore)
 39,106 
 38,187 
Weighted average number of equity shares
365,90,51,373
369,88,32,195
Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
106.88
103.24
Face value per equity share (`)

17) Auditor’s remuneration
 
Auditor’s remuneration consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Auditor

For taxation matters

For other services

For reimbursement of expenses

18) Segment information
 
The Company publishes the standalone financial statements of the Company along with the consolidated financial statements. 
In accordance with Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated 
financial statements.
19) Commitments and contingencies
 
Capital commitments
 
The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,454 crore and `1,315 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
 
Contingencies
 
Direct tax matters
 
 
Refer note 15.
 
Indirect tax matters
 
 
The Company has ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation and classification 
of certain items. The Company has demands amounting to `498 crore and `500 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the Company based on the management 
evaluation and advice of tax consultants.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 310
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Other claims
 
 
Claims aggregating `218 crore and `235 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, against the Company have not 
been acknowledged as debts.
 
 
In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation (referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company 
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential 
information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
 
 
In April 2016, the Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of `7,730 crore (US $940 million) to 
Epic which was thereafter reduced by the Trial Court to `3,454 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to reaffirmation of the 
District Court Order in March 2019, the Company filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also 
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge of `822 crore (US $100 million) award and 
`1,645 crore (US $200 million) in punitive damages.
 
 
On August 20, 2020, the Appeals Court (a) vacated the award of `2,303 crore (US $280 million) in punitive damages 
considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to 
reassess and reduce the punitive damages award to at most `1,151 crore (US $140 million), (b) affirmed the District Court’s 
decision vacating the jury’s award of `822 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages for alleged use of “other 
confidential information” by the Company, and, (c) affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of 
`1,151 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of the comparative analysis by the Company. Considering 
all the facts and various legal precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company provided `1,218 crore 
(US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its statement of profit and loss for three month period ended September 30, 
2020. This was presented as an “exceptional item” in the standalone statement of profit and loss. On April 8, 2021, Epic 
approached the Supreme Court seeking review of the Order of the Appeals Court which was denied by the Supreme Court 
on March 21, 2022.
 
 
On April 21, 2022, Epic invoked payment of `1,151 crore (US $140 million) out of `3,618 crore (US $440 million) Letter of 
Credit provided as security, towards compensatory damages awarded by the District Court and confirmed by the Appeals 
Court, already provided for in the earlier years.
 
 
On July 1, 2022, the District Court passed an Order affirming the punitive damages at `1,151 crore (US $140 million). The 
Company has filed an appeal on November 16, 2022, in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages awarded by the 
District Court, which is pending.
 
 
Pursuant to encashment of the Letter of Credit towards compensatory damages, the value of Letter of Credit made available 
to Epic stands reduced to `1,250 crore (US $152 million).
 
Guarantees and letter of comfort
 
 
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of 
comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such 
managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
 
 
The Company has provided guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any 
outflow of resources in respect of the above.
 
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.
20) Related party transactions
 
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company, Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own 
subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Company’s material related party transactions and outstanding 
balances are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. 
Refer note 21 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 311
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata 
Sons Private 
Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 23,753 
 1,152 
 2,506 
 27,449 
Dividend income
 2,106 
 2,106 
Rent income


Other income


Purchases of goods and services 
(including reimbursements)
 15,069 

 15,859 
Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written 
off, allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables and advances (net)
 (1)

Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,955 
 2,955 
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 29,881 

 29,903 
Guarantees given


Cost recovery
 3,591 
 3,591 
Transfer out of employee benefit 
obligations


Transfer in of employee benefit 
obligations


(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata 
Sons Private 
Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 21,358 

 2,233 
 24,401 
Dividend income
 3,548 
 3,548 
Rent income


Other income


Purchases of goods and services 
(including reimbursements)
 11,045 

 11,738 
Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 312
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata 
Sons Private 
Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Bad debts and advances written 
off, allowance for doubtful trade 
receivables and advances (net)
 (3)

 (2)
Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,322 
 2,322 
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 9,609 

 9,616 
Guarantees given


Buy-back of shares
 11,164 

 11,174 
Cost recovery
 2,799 
 2,799 
Sale of property, plant and equipment


Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 7,279 

 8,504 
Loans, other financial assets and 
other assets 

 7,737 

 9,152 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 6,704 

 7,630 
Loans, other financial assets and other 
assets

 6,861 

 7,879 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 313
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and 
deferred revenue, other financial 
liabilities and other liabilities 

 6,771 

 7,817 
Commitments and guarantees
 4,427 

 4,489 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and 
deferred revenue, other financial 
liabilities and other liabilities 

 5,067 

 5,769 
Commitments and guarantees
 4,610 

 4,848 
 
Material related party transactions are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH
 3,221 
 3,038 
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV
 3,402 
 3,006 
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
 3,544 
 2,804 
Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd.
 2,699 
 2,285 
Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB
 2,274 
 2,172 
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 
 1,706 
 1,500 
Tata Digital Private Limited

Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements) and net of cost 
recovery
Tata America International Corporation
 3,824 
 3,156 
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
 2,946 
 2,130 
TCS Foundation

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
 1,280 

Dividend income
Tata America International Corporation

TCS Iberoamerica SA

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 314
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables and contract assets
Tata America International Corporation
 1,366 
 1,291 
Tata Consultancy Services France
 1,227 
 1,063 
Diligenta Limited

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

Jaguar Land Rover Limited 

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and 
other liabilities 
Tata America International Corporation
 2,688 
 2,044 
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Short-term benefits

Dividend paid during the year

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the 
performance of individuals and market trends.
 
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as 
separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
21) No funds have been advanced / loaned / invested (from borrowed funds or from share premium or from any other sources / kind 
of funds) by the Company to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries), with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any 
guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
No funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Parties), with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall (i) directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or 
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `13 crore and `12 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively.
23) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. 
The Company will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the 
related rules to determine the financial impact are published.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 315
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
24) Additional Regulatory Information
 
Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Current year
Previous year
Current ratio (in times)
Total current assets
Total current liabilities
2.4
2.5
Debt-Equity ratio (in 
times)
Debt consists of borrowings 
and lease liabilities.
Total equity
0.1
0.1
Debt service coverage 
ratio (in times)
Earning for Debt Service = Net 
Profit after taxes + Non-cash 
operating expenses + Interest 
+ Other non-cash adjustments
Debt service = Interest and 
lease payments + Principal 
repayments
23.4
23.2
Return on equity ratio 
(in %)
Profit for the year less 
Preference dividend (if any)
Average total equity
51.6%
50.3%
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (in times)
Revenue from operations
Average trade receivables
4.8
4.8
Trade payables turnover 
ratio (in times)
Cost of equipment and 
software licences + Other 
expenses
Average trade payables
3.6
3.7
Net capital turnover ratio 
(in times)
Revenue from operations
Average working capital 
(i.e. Total current assets 
less Total current liabilities)
3.5
2.9
Net profit ratio (in %)
Profit for the year
Revenue from operations
20.5%
23.8%
Return on capital 
employed (in %)
Profit before tax and finance 
costs
Capital employed = Net 
worth + Lease liabilities + 
Deferred tax liabilities
65.2%
60.4%
Return on investment 
(in %)
Income generated from 
invested funds
Average invested funds in 
treasury investments
7.4%
6.1%
25) Dividend
 
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2023 include an amount of `22.00 per equity share towards final dividend for 
the year ended March 31, 2022 and an amount of `91.00 per equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) 
for the year ended March 31, 2023. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2022 include an amount of `15.00 per 
equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim 
dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022.
 
Dividends declared by the Company are based on the profit available for distribution. On April 12, 2023, the Board of Directors 
of the Company have proposed a final dividend of `24.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2023 subject to the 
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately 
`8,782 crore.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 316
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 
of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies 
Sr. 
No.
 Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company 
 Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary 
 Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
 End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
 Exchange 
Rate 
 Share 
Capital 
 Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
 Total 
Assets 
 Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover 
 Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
 Profit 
after 
Tax 
 Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore

APTOnline 
Limited
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

89%
India

MP Online 
Limited
September 
8, 2006
April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

89%
India

C-Edge 
Technologies 
Limited
January 19, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

51%
India

MahaOnline 
Limited
September 
23, 2010
April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

74%
India

TCS e-Serve 
International 
Limited
December 
31, 2008
April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

 239 1,087 

 2,046 

100%
India

Diligenta 
Limited
August 23, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
GBP
101.647598 

 1,515 2,838 
 1,313 

 4,258 

100%
U.K.

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Canada 
Inc.
October 1, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

CAD
 60.661331 

 1,324 3,241 
 1,874 
 10,217 
 1,133 

100%
Canada

Tata America 
International 
Corporation
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

USD
 82.232500 

 1,640 5,000 
 3,358 

 5,017 
 1,314 

100%
U.S.A.

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Asia 
Pacific Pte Ltd.
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

USD
 82.232500 

 975 2,099 
 1,088 

 2,798 

100%
Singapore

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services (China) 
Co., Ltd.
November 
16, 2006
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
CNY
 11.965790 

 1,050 

100%
China

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Japan, 
Ltd.
July 1, 2014
April 1, 

March 31, 

JPY
 0.616829 

 1,410 2,996 
 1,319 
 5,260 

66%
Japan

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Malaysia Sdn 
Bhd
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

MYR
 18.634149 

100%
Malaysia

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 317
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
 Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company 
 Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary 
 Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
 End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
 Exchange 
Rate 
 Share 
Capital 
 Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
 Total 
Assets 
 Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover 
 Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
 Profit 
after 
Tax 
 Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore

PT Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Indonesia
October 5, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

IDR
 0.005484 

100%
Indonesia

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
(Philippines) Inc.
September 
19, 2008
April 1, 

March 31, 

PHP
 1.512530 
 (42)

100%
Philippines

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
(Thailand) 
Limited
May 12, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

THB
 2.405866 

100%
Thailand

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Belgium
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

 2,626 

100%
Belgium

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Deutschland 
GmbH
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

 803 2,309 
 1,505 
 6,812 

100%
Germany

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Sverige 
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

SEK
 7.933748 
 906 1,528 

 4,258 

100%
Sweden

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Netherlands BV
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

 2,490 5,030 
 1,950 
 1,744 
 7,625 

100%
Netherlands

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Italia 
s.r.l.
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Italy

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Luxembourg 
S.A.
October 28, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Capellen 
(G.D. de 
Luxembourg)

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Switzerland Ltd.
October 31, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

CHF
 89.881408 

 831 1,757 

 4,708 

100%
Switzerland

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 318
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
 Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company 
 Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary 
 Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
 End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
 Exchange 
Rate 
 Share 
Capital 
 Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
 Total 
Assets 
 Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover 
 Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
 Profit 
after 
Tax 
 Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Osterreich 
GmbH
March 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Austria

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Danmark ApS
March 16, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

DKK
 12.007023 
 (2)
 (5)
 (5)
Denmark

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services De 
Espana S.A.
August 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Spain

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
(Portugal) 
Unipessoal, 
Limitada
July 4, 2005
April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Portugal

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services France
June 28, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

 (371)
 1,674 
 2,041 
 2,849 

100%
France

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Saudi 
Arabia
July 2, 2015
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
SAR
 21.907052 

100%
Saudi Arabia

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services (Africa) 
(PTY) Ltd.
October 23, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
ZAR
 4.616432 

100%
South Africa

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services (South 
Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
October 31, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
ZAR
 4.616432 

100%
South Africa

TCS FNS Pty 
Limited
October 17, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

AUD
 54.914864 

 (62)

100%
Australia

TCS Financial 
Solutions 
Beijing Co., Ltd.
December 
29, 2006
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
CNY
 11.965790 

 (7)

 (3)
 (3)
100%
China

TCS Financial 
Solutions 
Australia Pty 
Limited
October 19, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

AUD
 54.914864 

100%
Australia

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 319
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
 Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company 
 Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary 
 Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
 End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
 Exchange 
Rate 
 Share 
Capital 
 Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
 Total 
Assets 
 Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover 
 Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
 Profit 
after 
Tax 
 Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore

TCS 
Iberoamerica SA
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
USD
 82.232500 

 997 1,806 
 1,787 

100%
Uruguay

TCS Solution 
Center S.A.
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
UYU
 2.120487 

100%
Uruguay

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Argentina S.A.
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
ARS
 0.394254 

100%
Argentina

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Do 
Brasil Ltda
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
BRL
 16.140477 

 1,495 

100%
Brazil

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services De 
Mexico S.A., 
De C.V.
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
MXN
 4.544387 

 1,149 2,275 
 1,125 
 4,697 

100%
Mexico

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Chile 
S.A.
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
CLP
 0.104115 

100%
Chile

TCS Inversiones 
Chile Limitada
August 9, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
CLP
 0.104115 

100%
Chile

TATASOLUTION 
CENTER S.A.
December 
28, 2006
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
USD
 82.232500 

100%
Ecuador

TCS Uruguay 
S.A.
January 1, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
UYU
 2.120487 

100%
Uruguay

MGDC S.C.
January 1, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
MXN
 4.544387 

 (18)

 (5)

100%
Mexico

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Qatar 
L.L.C.
December 
20, 2011
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
QAR
 22.580800 

 (2)
 (2)
100%
Qatar

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services UK 
Limited
October 31, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
GBP
101.647598 

 (1)

100%
U.K.

TCS Business 
Services GmbH
March 9, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Germany

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services Ireland 
Limited
December 
02, 2020
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
EUR
 89.444305 

 1,315 

100%
Ireland

Standalone Financial Statements 2022-23 | 320
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
 Name of the 
Subsidiary 
Company 
 Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary 
 Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
 End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
 Exchange 
Rate 
 Share 
Capital 
 Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
 Total 
Assets 
 Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover 
 Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
 Profit 
after 
Tax 
 Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore

TCS Technology 
Solutions AG
January 01, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
EUR
 89.444305 

 687 1,767 
 1,051 
 1,907 

100%
Germany

Saudi Desert 
Rose Holding 
B.V. 
May 
26,2021
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
EUR
 89.444305 

100%
Netherlands

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Bulgaria EOOD
August 31, 

January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
BGN
 45.763537 

100%
Bulgaria

Tata 
Consultancy 
Services 
Guatemala, S.A.
September 
01, 2021
January 1, 

December 
31, 2022
GTQ
 10.543439 

100%
Guatemala

TCS Foundation
March 25, 

April 1, 

March 31, 

INR
 1.000000 

 1,305 1,857 

 (100)
 61 (161)
100%
India
Notes:
Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2023.
On May 18, 2022, Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. acquired additional 6.8% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. for a purchase 
consideration of `25 crore thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.
3. Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS liquidated w.e.f. July 27, 2022.
For and on behalf of the Board
Rajesh Gopinathan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria 
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2023

Glossary | 321
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Glossary
Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and enable 
much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive capacity and 
ultra-low latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases such as 
autonomous cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT. 
ADM
See Application Development and Maintenance
Agile
A collaborative approach for IT and business teams to develop software incrementally and faster. TCS has 
pioneered the Location Independent Agile™ model that allows for deployment at scale, and helps globally 
distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring stability and quality.
AgilityDebt™
AgilityDebt™ is a simple index developed by TCS, which uniquely indicates the burden carried by an organization 
that restricts its Agility. The index is arrived at based on a holistic Agile maturity assessment framework that 
measures the gap against required Agile talent, roles, team composition, delivery practices, Agile culture, Agile 
technology and DevOps enablers. TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile 
journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile transformations.
Agile Workspaces
These are key enablers of TCS’ Location Independent Agile model, and represent the next generation work 
environment that facilitate greater collaboration among teams. It is characterized by partition-less open offices, 
informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern collaboration devices for increased 
productivity. 
See Artificial Intelligence
Algo Retail™
TCS’ proprietary approach and suite of intellectual property that enables retailers to seamlessly integrate 
and orchestrate data flows across the retail value chain, harnessing the power of analytics, AI and machine 
learning in the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and commerce to unlock 
exponential business value.
Amortization
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over its useful life.
Analytics
In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in 
business data to predict and improve business performance.
Annuity Contracts
A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.
APAC
Acronym for Asia Pacific
API
See Application Programming Interface

Glossary | 322
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
APIfication
The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within an enterprise’s systems through APIs.
Application 
Development and 
Maintenance
Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing support, upkeep, and enhancement of such 
software over its lifetime.
Application 
Programming 
Interface 
A set of easily accessible protocols for communication among various software components.
See Augmented Reality
Artificial 
Intelligence
Technology that emulates human performance by learning, coming to its own conclusions, understanding 
complex content, engaging in natural dialogs with people, augmenting human effort or replacing people on 
execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive Computing.
ASEAN
Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Assets Under 
Custody
A measure of the total assets for which a financial institution, typically a custodian bank, provides custodian 
services.
Attrition
Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization (voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 
months (LTM).
Attrition (LTM) = Total number of departures in the LTM / closing headcount
AUC
See Assets Under Custody
Augmented 
Reality
Technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a user’s view of the real world to enrich the 
interaction.
Automation
The execution of work by machines in accordance with rules that have either been explicitly coded by a 
human or ‘learned’ by the machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include Robotic Process 
Automation and Cognitive Automation.
Avatar
An avatar is a digital representation of yourself, whether it’s in a video game, the metaverse, or wherever else it 
might be applicable.
Basis Point
One hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01 percent.
BFSI
Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
Big Data
A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset that require new forms of processing to 
enable enhanced decision making, insight discovery, and process optimization.
Blockchain
A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, secured from 
tampering and revision.
See Basis Point
BPaaS
See Business Process as a Service
BPS
See Business Process Services
Business 4.0
TCS’ thought leadership framework that helps enterprises leverage technology to further their growth and 
transformation agenda. Successful Business 4.0 enterprises use technology to deliver mass personalization, 
leverage ecosystems, embrace risk and create exponential value. Such enterprises are agile, intelligent, 
automated and on the cloud.
Business Process 
as a Service
Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud computing model. Whereas traditional BPS relies on labor arbitrage 
to reduce costs, BPaaS aggregates demand using the cloud, servicing multiple customers with a single instance, 
multi-tenant platform and shared services, thereby delivering significant operating efficiencies. The pricing 
model is usually outcome based.
Business Process 
Services
Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including data management, analytics, interactions and 
experience management.
Buyback
A corporate action in which a company returns excess cash to shareholders by buying back its shares from them 
and usually extinguishing those shares thereafter. The company’s equity share capital and the number of shares 
outstanding in the market correspondingly reduced.
CAGR
See Compounded Annual Growth Rate
Capital 
Expenditure 
(CapEx)
Funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical assets such as property, buildings, an 
industrial plant, technology, or equipment.
Carbon Neutral
Not adding new greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to the atmosphere through reduction initiatives and where 
emissions continue, they are compensated by absorbing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere through 
carbon offset.

Glossary | 323
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Carbon Offset
Market-based instrument used to compensate for the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere 
because of the organization’s activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) 
and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are some of the popular carbon offsets.
Cash and Cash 
Equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value. Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather 
than for investment or other purposes.
Cash Flow
Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Flow 
from Operating 
Activities
Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities. Therefore, they generally result from the 
transactions and other events that enter into the determination of profit or loss. 
CBO
See Cognitive Business Operations
See Constant Currency
Chatbots
Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the internet. They are 
typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes like customer service or information acquisition.
Cloud
See Cloud Computing
Cloud Computing
The delivery of easily provisionable computing resources – servers, storage, databases, networking, software, 
analytics and more – over the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Cloud Native
A cloud native application consists of discrete, reusable components known as microservices that are designed 
to integrate into any cloud environment.
CMT
Acronym for Communication, Media and Technology
CMMI-SVC
Acronym for Capability Maturity Model® Integration For Services
Cognitive 
Automation
The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more complex tasks that require reasoning capability 
and contextual awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software product in the market today.
Cognitive Business 
Operations (CBO)
An integrated offering where TCS takes responsibility for the outcome of an entire slice of the customers’ 
operations including the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses cognitive automation 
to transform that operational stack.
Cognitive 
Computing
See Artificial Intelligence
COIN
See Co-Innovation Network
Co-Innovation 
Network
This is an extended, global innovation ecosystem curated by TCS, to harness the innovation efforts of start-ups 
and academia, and incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its customers.
Compounded 
Annual Growth 
Rate (CAGR)
The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming that it has been compounding during that 
period.
Connected Clinical 
Trials (CCT) 
Platform
Part of the TCS ADD suite, CCT is an innovative software-as-a-service platform that enables life sciences 
companies to significantly transform patient engagement in clinical trials and improve adherence to protocols, 
as well as the efficiency and accountability of clinical trials. 
Constant Currency
The basis for restating the current period’s growth after eliminating the impact of movements in exchange rates 
during the period. 
Contextual 
Knowledge
This is tacit knowledge pertaining to, and specific to, the granular nuances of a customer’s business and IT 
landscape, acquired on the job over a period of time. TCS teams use their contextual knowledge to design 
technology solutions that are uniquely tailored for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of 
competitive differentiation.
Conversational AI
Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) refers to technologies, like chatbots or virtual agents, which users can 
talk to. They use large volumes of data, machine learning, and natural language processing to help imitate 
human interactions, recognizing speech and text inputs and translating their meanings across various languages.
CO2e
Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
from carbon dioxide or another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc.
CPG
Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods
Core Banking 
System
A back-end system that processes daily banking transactions and posts updates to accounts and other financial 
records; typically includes deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger 
systems and reporting tools.

Glossary | 324
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Core 
Transformation
Modernization initiatives that target the one or more elements of the organization’s operations stack consisting 
of business processes, software systems and underlying infrastructure, usually to enable greater agility, 
scalability, resilience and a superior customer experience. These are typically large in scale and scope, and entail 
the integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.
Cyber Security
Technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attack, 
damage or unauthorized access. 
Days’ Sales 
Outstanding (DSO)
A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivable relative to the company’s Revenue. 
DSO = Trade Receivable * 365 / LTM Revenue
DSO Data Mining
Data mining is the practice of obtaining valuable information from data sets. The data can be in any form, such 
as text, audio, or video data.
Data mining aims to find actionable insights in the data that can improve business decisions or solve problems. 
For instance, data mining can discover customer buying patterns and target ads towards people who would 
likely purchase a product.
Depreciation
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.
DevOps
Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a software in production using high levels of 
automation and tooling. TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to market.
Digital
Represents new age technologies such as Social Media, Mobility, Analytics, Big Data, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence 
and Internet of Things. Increasingly, with these technologies becoming mainstream, this word is becoming 
redundant.
Digital Divide
Digital Divide refers to the unequal spread of technology and the opportunities it affords between different 
socioeconomic groups in a society.
Digital Twin 
A digital replica of a physical entity. For instance, a digital twin of a factory is a virtual model of the factory built 
using its data, process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in the real factory can be studied 
by simulating the change in the digital twin. 
Discretionary 
Spend
Also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, it is that portion of the IT budget which is used to fund projects 
that are not, strictly speaking, essential for day to day operations, but are more transformational in nature. 
In uncertain economic times, when businesses are forced to cut spends in response to decline in income, 
discretionary spend is often the first to be scrutinized. However, what is considered discretionary is subjective 
and may differ considerably amongst businesses even within the same sector.
Distributed Ledger 
Technology
See Blockchain
Dividend
One form of distribution of profits earned by the Company and is usually declared as an amount per equity 
share held by the Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim dividends and the final dividend 
is approved by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
DLT
See Distributed Ledger Technology
EACs
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments that can be used by the bearer to claim 
renewable energy consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.
Earnings Per Share 
(EPS)
The amount of that period’s Net Income attributable to a single share after deducting any preference dividend 
and related taxes.
EPS = [Net profit attributable to Shareholders of the Company – Preference dividend, if any] / Weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period.
Edge Computing
Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of the network, in close proximity to the users, 
but not through an on-premise data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases.
EFF1
European Efficiency Classification standard, Level 1
Effective Tax Rate 
(ETR)
The proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is provided towards income taxes.
ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax
EIA
Acronym for Environmental Impact Assessment. It is an environmental impact study which needs to be 
conducted as per Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) requirements for new construction/ expansion 
projects.
Engineering and 
Industrial Services
Consists of next generation product engineering, manufacturing operations transformation, services 
transformation, embedded software and Internet of Things.

Glossary | 325
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Enterprise Agile
The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of the enterprise, designed to empower 
employees, foster collaboration and drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale. 
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) is a system for how to measure the sustainability of a company in 
three specific categories: environmental, social and governance.
EPEAT
Acronym for Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool
EPS
See Earnings Per Share
ESG
See Environmental, Social and Governance
ETR
See Effective Tax rate
Fair Value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
Fintech
Businesses that use technology to make financial services more efficient. Some fintech developments have 
improved traditional services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have revolutionized services such 
as pay per mile car insurance, or created new products, such as Bitcoin.
Fixed Price 
Contracts
A form of services contracts where the vendor takes a turnkey responsibility for delivering a solution for a 
certain price and within a mutually agreed timeframe. The customer is billed on completion of key project 
milestones and related deliverables. This arrangement gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing 
and execution of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project risk.
Framework
A kind of intellectual property, consisting of software which provides generic functionality for a certain business 
use case, and which is customized for a specific customer’s needs with additional code. Use of such pre-built 
code reduces time to market and results in more stable, reliable solutions.
Free Cash Flow
Represents the cash a company generates through its operations, less the capital expenditure.
Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating activities – Capital expenditure
FTE
Acronym Full Time Equivalent
Function Point
A function point is a granular building block of a software, based on a functional view of that system, 
represented by a code snippet whose logic helps the user accomplish something. The concept is used while 
estimating the effort for building a new application, by decomposing it into its constituent function points of 
varying levels of complexity. 
Furlough
A temporary cessation of work without pay for the employees, usually implemented by organizations facing 
under difficult economic conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees. 
Gamification
The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage 
user participation.
GDPR
Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union regulation for data protection and privacy. 
Generative AI
Generative AI describes any type of artificial intelligence (AI) that is is capable of generating new content, 
including text, images, video, audio, simulations, code or synthetic data. The most popular example is ChatGPT, a 
large language model that uses deep learning to produce text that looks like it is written by humans.
GHGs
Acronym for Greenhouse Gas. These are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere leading to global warming and 
climate change.
Global Capability 
Centers (GCC) / 
Captive units
Captive units include both MNC-owned units that undertake work for the parents’ global operations and the 
company owned units of domestic firms, set up in offshore locations offering cheaper labor pool, helping the 
parent to reduce its operational costs.
Growth and 
Transformation
Initiatives launched to improve the enterprise's revenues, leveraging technology to adopt new business models, 
drive new revenue streams, enhance customer experience or target new customer segments. This is in contrast 
to traditional outsourcing engagements where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.
G&T
See Growth and Transformation
HVAC
Acronym for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning System
Hybrid Cloud
An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds, public clouds and on premise data centers, 
to meet the compute and storage needs of the business. 
IE3
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards, Level 3
IGBT
Acronym for Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors
Innovation Days
Focused workshops with a TCS customer where researchers and business leaders from both organizations 
participate to explore emerging technologies for specific customer problems. 

Glossary | 326
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Innovation Forum
TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in North America, UK, Latin America and Japan. It brings together 
researchers from academia, innovators from the start-up ecosystem, technology watchers, futurists and 
customers to brainstorm around emerging technologies.
Inorganic Growth
Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather than due to an increase in the company's 
own business activity. 
ISO
Acronym for International Organization for Standardization
Internet of Things
A network of interconnected machines or devices embedded with sensors, software, network connectivity, and 
necessary electronics to generate and share run-time data that can be studied and used to monitor or control 
remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.
Intellectual 
Property 
An asset that is the result of a creative design or idea, such as patents, copyrights, reusable code, software 
products and platforms, and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one can copy or reuse 
the creation without the owner's permission.
Interactive 
Technology
Allows for a two-way flow of information through an interface between the user and the technology; the 
user usually communicates a request for data or action to the technology with the technology returning the 
requested data or result of the action back to the user.
Invested Funds
Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted into cash.
Invested funds = Cash and Cash Equivalents + Investments + Deposits with banks + Inter-corporate deposits
Involuntary 
Attrition
A reduction in the workforce due to the employer’s decision to terminate employment, instead of the 
employees’ decision to leave. 
IoT
See Internet of Things
See Intellectual Property
Key Managerial 
Personnel
At TCS, this refers to the Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, and the Company Secretary. Please refer to the Company's policy on KMP: http://www.tcs.com/ircorporate-governance
Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit used to measure and report water usage in 
TCS’ offices.
KMP
See Key Managerial Personnel
kWh
Acronym for kilowatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity
Large Language 
Models
This is a language model used to train generative AI, and consists of a neural network with many parameters 
(typically billions of weights), trained on large volumes of unlabeled text. By tracking words in sequences, it 
learns both context and meaning in language, enabling it to generate text artifacts that look they were written 
by humans. 
LatAm
Acronym for Latin America 
Location 
Independent Agile
A method to orchestrate globally distributed stakeholders and talent into Agile teams for improved speed to 
market in large transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the technology that allows 
enterprises to overcome location constraints and embrace Agile methods on a global scale. 
Low-Code, No 
Code
New software development platforms that offer a drag and drop user interface to allow business users to build 
custom web or mobile applications without actually having to write the code. The difference between the two is 
related the extent of programming ability needed. The former might still require some amount of programming, 
while the latter is entirely drag and drop. In addition to boosting innovation within the enterprise, these 
platforms also drive up productivity of programmers.
Machine First™ 
Delivery Model
A model that integrates analytics, AI and automation deep within the enterprise to redefine how humans and 
machines work together and to effectively deliver superior outcomes. 
Machine Learning
A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the ability to learn behaviors without being 
explicitly programmed.
Managed Services
This is the practice of outsourcing to one service provider, also knowns as the Managed Services Provider (MSP), 
the end-to-end responsibility for providing, or orchestrating the provision through third party providers of, 
services around a range of processes and functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and 
scalability.
Managed Services 
Provider
Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of providing Managed Services.
Market 
Capitalization
The total market value of a company's total outstanding equity shares at a point in time.
Market Capitalization = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding shares
MEA
Acronym for Middle East and Africa 

Glossary | 327
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Metaverse
A virtual 3D environment that a user can experience explore on a computer or VR headset. Users can interact 
with each other in several ways, including social networking, gaming, and shopping.
MFDM™
Acronym for Machine First Delivery Model
Minimum Viable 
Product 
The most basic version of a new product built in an agile development cycle, with the bare minimum 
functionality, made available to users at the earliest to get user feedback and validate product value with 
minimum investment. Once validated, its features and functionalities are continually augmented in subsequent 
iterative cycles. 
Acronym for Mega Joule used as a unit of measurement of energy (electricity as well as fuel use)
Mobility
Information, convenience, and social media all combined together, and made available across a variety of screen 
sizes and hand-held devices.
Moonlighting
Working more than one job at a time, taking on assignments from third parties in addition to a regular 
employment, usually without the employer’s knowledge. 
MSP
See Managed Services Provider
MVP
See Minimum Viable Product
MWh
Acronym for megawatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity. 1 MWh=1000kWh
Net Zero
Greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere due the company’s activity are minimized through a series 
of initiatives and the residual emission is compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions 
elsewhere through carbon offsets.
Non-Controlling 
Interests
The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Non-discretionary 
Spend
Also known as Run the Business (RTB) spend, is that portion of the IT budget that covers the basic IT activities 
required to keep a business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary spend remains relatively 
unaffected.
Operating Model
The manner in which processes are defined and activities are organized to create and deliver value to a 
target audience. An IT operating model covers activities around new system development, application and 
infrastructure support whereas business operating models address execution of actions specific to a business 
function. 
Operating Model 
Transformation
Redefining individual processes by embedding AI, machine learning and other forms of automation to reduce 
the need for human intervention, resulting in a leaner operating model that is faster, more agile and more 
resilient. Such transformations – whether in IT or business – can be significantly accelerated by the use of TCS 
Cognix. 
Options Contract
A hedging instrument that offers the buyer the right to buy or sell the underlying asset (such as stocks or 
currency) on a future date, at a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium. 
Eg: TCS purchases an options contract to sell USD 1million @ ` 87/$ after 3 months, paying an option premium 
of ` 1 million. With this, TCS will have the right to sell USD 1million at an exchange rate of ` 87, even if the 
prevailing market rate at the end of three months is, say ` 85. On the other hand, if the market rate is higher, 
say ` 89, then TCS can choose to let the options contract lapse and instead sell at the market rate. 
Order Book
See Total Contract Value
Organic Growth
The revenue growth a company can achieve by increasing its existing business activity. This does not include 
growth attributable to takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
PAS 2060
It is an internationally recognized standard by the British Standards Institution to verify and substantiate an 
organization’ claim of carbon neutrality.
PaaS
See Platform as a Service
Personalization
Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized for a single customer in a single instance.
Platforms
A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other applications, processes or technologies are 
developed. Useful for optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive strategic business 
initiatives.
Platform as a 
Service (PaaS)
A category of cloud computing that provides a platform and environment to allow developers to build 
applications and services over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed by users simply 
via their web browser.
Power Usage 
Effectiveness
It is the ratio of total amount of electricity used by a data center facility to the electricity used by the computing 
equipment in the data center.

Glossary | 328
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Pricing
The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey project or a certain process outcome, depending 
on the nature of the contract. Some use this term interchangeably (and somewhat inaccurately) with the 
average revenue realized by the company per utilized effort on an aggregate basis. See Realization.
Private Cloud
Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT infrastructure, in terms of compute and storage resources, are 
provisioned for the dedicated use of a single organization.
Product
In the technology context, refers to a packaged software program that is made available to multiple customers 
either on a license basis, or on a subscription basis, to enable the execution of certain common tasks or 
processes or business functions in a standardized way. This is the opposite of bespoke or custom software which 
is built to specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.
Public Cloud
A computing service model used for the provisioning of storage and computational services to the general 
public over the internet. Public cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing model.
PUE
See Power Usage Effectiveness
R&I
Acronym for Research & Innovation
Realization
The revenue received by the company per utilized effort. Pricing varies by service and by market. Consequently, 
there can be changes in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the underlying business 
or geographic mix during the period. This does not necessarily mean that like-to-like pricing has changed. 
Also, realization doesn’t take into account the costs and therefore, higher realization is not necessarily more 
profitable.
RECs/ GOs
Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used in different markets.
Related Party 
Transactions
Any transaction between a company and its related party involving transfer of services, resources or any 
obligation, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Please refer to the Company’s policy on Related Party Transactions: http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporategovernance.
Revenue
The income earned by the Company from operations by providing IT and consulting services, software licenses, 
and hardware equipment to customers.
RFP
Acronym for Request for Proposal, meaning a document that solicits proposal, often made through a bidding 
process, by an entity interested in procurement of IT services, to potential service providers to submit business 
proposals. An RFP is floated early in the procurement cycle and requested information may include basic 
corporate information and history, financial information, technical capability and estimated completion period, 
and customer references.
Robotic Process 
Automation
The use of software tools to automate high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to 
perform. RPA is best suited for relatively simple and stable processes. Dynamic changes in the environment 
require ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting the economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers 
are preferring cognitive automation over RPA. 
RPA
See Robotic Process Automation
SBWS™
See Secure Borderless Workspaces
Scope 1, Scope 2, 
Scope 3 emissions
Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Secure Borderless 
Workspaces™ 
TCS’ innovative operating model rolled out in response to the COVID-19 disruption. It is a fully location agnostic 
extension of the Location Independent Agile model, enabling employees to work remotely, while retaining the 
same high rigor in project management, governance and security. The fully distributed nature of this model is 
better suited to ensure business continuity. It leverages TCS’ prior investments and incorporates the learnings 
and best practices around network management, standard service delivery environment, digitized governance 
processes, heavy use of collaborative and cloud based technologies and an internal SOC benchmarked to the 
best in the industry.
Security 
Operations Center
A Security Operations Center is responsible for protecting an organization against cyber threats. SOC analysts 
perform round-the-clock monitoring of an organization’s network and investigate any potential security 
incidents.
SEZ
See Special Economic Zone
Shareholder 
Payout Ratio
The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders as compared to the Company’s earnings, i.e. Net Income 
attributable to Shareholders of the Company. Payout can be in the form of dividend and share buyback, 
including taxes thereon.
Simplification
The rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of systems and elimination of redundant systems 
and layers. The primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations leaner and more efficient.
SOC
See Security Operations Center

Glossary | 329
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sole Sourced 
Contract
Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the needs of the contractual requirements. 
These types of contracts can be won when the competitor set narrows down significantly and comes down to a 
single vendor discussion, given the nature of the client’s solution requirements.
Special Economic 
Zone
In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws are different from the rest of the country, 
with various benefits and tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local jobs.
STEM
An acronym for education in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math.
T&M
See Time and Materials Contract
TCFD
Acronym for Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
tCO2e
Acronym for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
TCS Pace™ 
A brand promise that represents the way TCS channels its domain knowledge and organizational units – 
business and technology services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation organization – into 
internal and external co-innovation programs.
TCS Pace Port™ 
Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be experienced. These spaces are close to academic and start-up hubs, 
and enclose innovation showcases, Agile workspaces and think spaces. They encourage brainstorming, design 
thinking and collaborative innovation with internal and external partners. 
TCV
See Total Contract Value
Time and 
Materials Contract
A form of services contract where the customer is billed for the effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc.) logged by the 
project team members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with Fixed Price Contracts.
Total Contract 
Value
An aggregation of the value of all the contracts signed during a period and a useful indicator of demand, and 
near term business visibility.
Turnkey Contracts
See Fixed Price Contracts
Unearned and 
Deferred Revenue
For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to be delivered. In other words, it is the 
amount that has been invoiced although the underlying effort is yet to be expended.
Vendor 
Consolidation
A strategy to reduce costs and the overheads of managing a large number of vendors. Usually entails 
aggregating work currently outsourced to a large number of small providers, and transferring it to a smaller, 
select set of winning bidders. Besides cost reduction, clients use this to reduce complexity and accelerate their 
cloud transformation journeys. Selecting a single strategic partner with end to end capabilities to maintain the 
legacy estate and support the modernization drives efficiency, accountability and speed.
Virtual Reality 
Artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real-life environment or situation. It engages users 
by offering simulated reality experiences firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and hearing.
Virtualization
The abstraction of IT resources – like a server, client, storage or network – that masks the physical nature and 
boundaries of those resources from the users of those resources.
Voluntary Attrition Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly leaving the organization to pursue other 
opportunities, spend time with family, or for some other personal reason.
See Virtual Reality
Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed reality.
Y-o-Y
Year-on-Year
Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand commonly used terms and phrases in this report. The explanations are not 
intended to be technical definitions. If explanations provided here are found to be different from what is described in the Company’s 
periodic financial statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will 
prevail.

Sustainability Disclosures | 330
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Sustainability 
Disclosures
Identification of Material Topics1

Key Elements of Annual Materiality Assessments:
Stakeholder interactions result in the identification of a broad 
funnel of issues important to each of the constituencies. TCS' 
Sustainability Council uses discussions with internal and external 
stakeholders, as well as its own judgment, to prioritize and arrive at 
a list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or 
social impacts on TCS’ business, reputation, and operations.
The company looks at the role of TCS in wider sustainability issues, 
the impact the company has through its customer engagements 
and its operations, and the role that the company experts play 
in professional associations, industry forums and other thought 
leadership activities to address important issues raised by 
stakeholders.
Engagement with 
stakeholders
Sustainability 
context and value 
chain

GRI 3-1

Sustainability Disclosures | 331
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Key Material Topics2, Key Concerns, Boundary of impact and TCS approach3 to them are listed below:
Material Topics
Why this is material
Key Concerns
TCS Approach (Page 
Reference Number)*
Boundary 
of impact
GRI Indicators
Corporate 
Governance
Strong corporate 
governance that 
considers - stakeholder 
concerns, engenders 
trust, oversees business 
strategies, and ensures 
fiscal accountability, 
ethical corporate 
behavior, and fairness 
to all stakeholders is 
core to achieving the 
organization’s longerterm mission.
Governance Structure 
and composition
CG>> Pg 113
Internal
2-9, 2-10, 2-11, 
2-12, 2-13, 
2-14, 2-15, 
2-19
Independence of the 
Board and Minority 
Interest
CG>> Pg 113, 114 
Avoidance of conflict 
of interest
CG>> Pg 114
Board oversight
CG>> Pg 115
Disclosure and 
Transparency
CG>>Disclosures >> 
Pgs 125 to 127 
MDA >> Internal 
financial control 
systems and their 
adequacy >> Pg 105
Value, ethics and 
compliance
CG>> Pg 114
Enterprise Risk 
Management
MDA>> Pgs 95 to 104 
Succession Planning
CG>> Pg 115
Remuneration Policy
CG>> Pg 122
Business 
Sustainability
A financially strong, 
viable business that 
is able to adapt to 
changing technology 
landscapes to remain 
relevant to customers 
and profitably grow 
its revenues yearon-year is essential 
to meet longer term 
expectations of 
stakeholders.
Economic 
performance
Financial Capital >> Pg 
16,17 
Letter to Shareholders 
>> Pgs 8 to 11
Internal
2-22, 201-1
Demand sustainability • 
MDA >> Strategy for 
sustainable growth >> 
Pgs 86 to 88 
MDA >> Business 
outlook >> Pg 94,95 
Investments 
in capability 
development
MDA >> Enabling 
investments >> Pg 87
Intellectual Capital >> 
Pg 20,21 
Talent 
Management
The company’s ability 
to attract, develop, 
motivate, and retain 
talent is critical to 
business success.
Talent acquisition
MDA >> Pg 89
Internal
401-1, 401-2, 
401-3, 403-1, 
403-2, 403-5, 
403-6, 403-9, 
403-10, 404-1, 
405-1, 405-2, 
406-1
Talent development
MDA >> Pg 90
Culture and Diversity
MDA >> Pg 89, 90
Employee retention
MDA >> Pg 91
Employee 
Enagagement
MDA >> Pg 91
Competitive 
Compensation 
MDA >> Pg 91
Occupational Health 
and safety
MDA >> Pg 91

GRI 3-2

GRI 3-3
MDA: Management Discussion and Analysis, CG: Corporate Governance Report, BRSR: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report

Sustainability Disclosures | 332
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Material Topics
Why this is material
Key Concerns
TCS Approach (Page 
Reference Number)*
Boundary 
of impact
GRI Indicators
Social 
Responsibility
The business must be 
rooted in community 
and be aligned with 
the community’s 
larger interests. Any 
adversarial relationship 
can hurt the company’s 
ability to create longer 
term value.
Local communities
Social Capital >> Pg 23
External
204-1, 207-1, 
207-2, 207-3 
308-1, 308-2, 
413-1, 414-2
Supplier Social 
and Environmental 
Assessment
BRSR >> Pg 162, 177
Education and skill 
development
Social Capital >> Pg 23
Job creation
Social Capital >> Pg 23 
Taxes payable in 
different regions
CG >> Tax strategy >> 
Pg 115
Consolidated Financial 
Statements >> Income 
taxes >> Pgs 235 to 

Country-wise 
subsidiary income 
taxes >> Pgs 316 to 320
Environmental 
stewardship
Natural Capital >> Pg 
24, 25 
Environmental 
Footprint
Business sustainability 
is linked to the 
planet’s sustainability. 
Moreover, good 
environmental practices 
result in greater 
operational efficiency, 
adding to financial 
sustainability.
Energy consumption
Natural Capital >> Pg 
24, 25 
BRSR >> Pg 168
Internal
302-1, 302-3, 
303-1, 303-2, 
303-3, 303-4, 
303-5, 305-1, 
305-2, 305-3, 
305-4, 305-5, 
306-2, 306-3, 
306-4, 306-5
GHG emissions
BRSR >> Pgs 169, 170, 

Water management
BRSR >> Pg 173, 174 
Waste management
BRSR >> Pg 171, 172 

Sustainability Disclosures | 333
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Climate change risk and opportunities assessment and management
Aligned with Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Framework
Governance4
A) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks & opportunities.
Different Board committees oversee different aspects of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC)
The SRC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 3 members including the CEO. It reviews the climate change 
strategy, approach, and performance of the organization. 
The SRC formally meets twice every year to review policies and sustainability performance, including climate change and carbon 
performance. The board oversight helps drive the program effectively with greater accountability. 
The CEO as a part of the SRC, is directly responsible for the efficient operations of the facility and hence is better able to review 
performance and drive improvement. The quarterly updates go from the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and is supported 
by the Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health and Safety. 
TCS’ carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 
2016 base year), and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, was reviewed and approved by the committee.
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
The RMC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 5 members including one additional independent director, 2 
executive directors, i.e..CEO, COO, and one company executive, CFO. 
The RMC formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s risk management policy.
Climate change risks and opportunities are covered under the strategic and operational risks for the Company and are reviewed in 
the RMC committee meetings.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSRC)
The CSRC is chaired by the Company’s Chairman and additionally comprises one independent director and one executive director. 
The committee formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s CSR policy and outcomes, including climate action related 
projects.
The Board members meet on a quarterly basis and review their activities.
B) Describe management’s role in assessing & managing climate-related risks & opportunities5.
The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for overall ESG related challenges, targets and achievements.
Responsibility for driving and tracking climate change mitigation initiatives lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer. He reports 
to the Board sub-committee on sustainability related matters. Head, Environmental Sustainability Health and Safety (ESHS) 
reports to the CHRO. The ESHS team comprises of environmental sustainability professionals who monitor various climate change 
related data points including emissions and support the implementation of emission reduction initiatives across TCS locations in 
collaboration with action owners within the organization. Location level targets are monitored by the location level operations 
and ESHS teams. 
For environmental risk assessment, mitigation, and adaptation, TCS has a well-defined structure with an Enterprise Risk 
Management Unit which is headed by a Chief Risk Officer. This unit reviews all risks associated with the company operations. ERM 
categorizes risks and opportunities into Strategic, Operational, Financial, Compliance and Catastrophic. 
The risk identification process is carried out for the entire organization and its value chain to assess all risks including the physical, 
compliance, operational and reputational risks due to climate change and the business opportunities associated with it. Unit 
level risk assessments are done to assess the physical risks of climate change. These are then rolled up to the enterprise-level risk 
portfolio register and suitably included. These risks are reviewed on a half yearly basis or as required. 
As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the company is seeing opportunities to provide technology-led solutions 
to help them achieve their sustainability goals. Recent events have accelerated digital adoption, put the spotlight on supply 
chain resilience and added urgency to the sustainability imperative. TCS leveraged its deep expertise in IoT, advanced analytics, 

TCFD Governance A and B

 GRI 2-13

Sustainability Disclosures | 334
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
and machine learning to come up with a suite of offerings in this space, including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, 
IP2™, and TCS Envirozone™. Clients across industries such as retail, manufacturing, utilities and consumer goods are engaging the 
company to develop innovative technology led solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to measure and track green-house gas 
emissions across their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
Strategy 6
Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
Current regulation
TCS is required to follow all the environmental regulations around emissions, water discharge, waste recycling 
etc. Compliance to these regulations is monitored as part of the company’s risk management function and 
integrated into its mitigation plans. TCS discloses its performance against various environmental parameters 
as per the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) mandated Business Responsibility & Sustainability 
Reporting (BRSR) framework, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Emerging regulation
Emerging regulations including carbon taxes (coal or fossil fuel taxes leading to escalation in the electricity 
tariff), mandatory energy audits are examples which impact TCS. Regulations around procurement of 
renewable energy, which is a key driver of the company’s climate change mitigation plan, is also ever evolving 
in all major geographies. TCS keeps a close watch on the emerging regulations and plans its organizational 
sustainability strategy and roadmap to adapt to those changes.
Technology
With more energy efficient and eco-friendly building and IT equipment coming in the market, keeping TCS 
offices eco-efficient is an ongoing process wherein the company evaluates the technology and suitability and 
works on a phaseout plan to move to the new more efficient technology. These are considered as operational 
risks and opportunities which drive the company to make its infrastructure more climate resilient. Additionally, 
TCS is one of the market leaders in the cloud migration opportunity, helping clients migrate their workloads 
from owned data centers to hyperscaler clouds, significantly reducing the carbon footprint associated with 
those workloads.
Legal
TCS tracks environmental legal compliance (air emissions, water discharges, waste management and others) 
on a periodic basis and has a robust internal compliance management system to identify and comply with all 
legal requirements of current, amended and new regulations. 
Market
Climate change is driving a lot of changes in TCS’ customer behaviour, thus creating new markets and new 
opportunities, giving the company an opportunity to partner with them in their climate change mitigation 
journey by providing solutions, services, and process automation which helps in emission reduction.
Reputation
Reputational risk is relevant to the company as the investor and customer community is becoming increasingly 
aware of climate change related issues. It is important to demonstrate leadership in climate action to maintain 
TCS’ reputation. 
Acute physical
Acute physical risks associated with extreme weather events is relevant as TCS has substantial operations in 
coastal cities in India which are exposed to potential extreme weather events like heavy precipitation, flood, 
and cyclones. E.g., The company offices located in coastal cities like Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, Kochi are 
exposed to physical risks from cyclonic events and therefore adequate mitigation plans are in place. 
Chronic physical
Having presence in many major cities across the world, TCS is subject to climate change related chronic 
physical impacts like change in precipitation pattern, with resultant effects like drought or flood. Also, with 
TCS’s presence in coastal cities like Chennai, Mumbai, Kochi, Trivandrum, Kolkata, rise in sea level and related 
impacts like land submergence, salt water intrusion, disruption to network and communication systems are 
more likely. These risks are long term and included from perspective of planning appropriate infrastructure.

TCFD Strategy A, B and C. The time horizon considered by TCS during the current year for its assessment of short, medium and 
long term are 0 to 5 years, 5 to 10 years and 10 to 20 years respectively.

Sustainability Disclosures | 335
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
B) Describe where and how climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced the organization business, strategy and 
financial planning.
 
Have climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
influenced your 
strategy in this area?
Description of influence
Products and 
services
Yes
As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the company is seeing 
opportunities to provide technology-led solutions to help them achieve their 
sustainability goals. The change in technology consumption reflects the prevailing 
trends in the economy. Recent events have accelerated digital adoption, put 
the spotlight on supply chain resilience and added urgency to the sustainability 
imperative. 
Each of these represents an opportunity that can contribute towards the growth of 
not just as one company, but of the ecosystem as a whole. TCS leveraged its deep 
expertise in IoT, advanced analytics, and machine learning to come up with a suite of 
offerings in this space, including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™, 
and TCS Envirozone™.
Clients across industries such as retail, manufacturing, utilities and consumer goods 
are engaging TCS to develop innovative technology led solutions to reduce energy 
consumption, or to measure and track green-house gas emissions across their end-toend supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
Supply chain and/or 
value chain
Yes
Supply Chain sustainability through responsible sourcing is one of the risk mitigations 
identified by the Company under its sustainability risk. TCS’s Green Procurement policy 
outlines its commitment to making its supply chain more responsible and sustainable. 
Energy efficiency is one of the major procurement considerations in all the company’s 
IT and other infrastructure assets procurement as this is directly correlated with TCS’ 
emission profile. 
Climate related risks play a very important role in the company’s supply chain 
engagements, and TCS is working with its suppliers to bring in improvements in 
carbon performance along with other ESG elements.
Investment in R&D
Yes
TCS’ investments in research and innovation have resulted in solutions like 
Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been using Clever Energy for the last 
few years to reduce its energy consumption and is now offering these to clients to 
help them achieve their sustainability goals. Additionally, TCS has been investing in 
building green campuses (IGBC certified). 
Operations
Yes
Climate Change risks play an important consideration in TCS’ operations. The 
company has created an environmentally sustainable approach by creating green 
policies, processes, frameworks, and infrastructure. TCS’ campuses are designed 
to withstand extreme weather events and the business continuity plans are tested 
periodically to ensure continued operations without any disruption. Green buildings, 
efficient operations, green IT, the use of renewable energy to reduce carbon 
footprint; adoption of newer technologies and methods to manage waste in line 
with circular economy principles are integral to the company operations. All these 
initiatives are helping TCS achieve its Net Zero target by 2030.

Sustainability Disclosures | 336
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
 
Have climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
influenced your 
strategy in this area?
Description of influence
Direct costs, Capital 
expenditures, Capital 
allocation, Assets
Yes
TCS has aligned its current systems of internal financial control with the requirement 
of Companies Act 2013, on the lines of the globally accepted risk-based framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway 
Commission. 
The Internal Control – Integrated Framework (the 2013 framework) is intended to 
increase transparency and accountability in an organization’s process of designing 
and implementing a system of internal control. The framework requires a company 
to identify and analyze risks and manage appropriate responses. The company has 
successfully laid down the framework and ensured its effectiveness.
Climate risks and opportunities are the key factors while making financial 
considerations especially while making investments in offices, equipment, and 
renewable energy. Investment in these areas constitutes a substantial share of the 
company’s overall capital investment. Major investments are in green buildings, roof 
top solar and other energy efficiency initiatives. In FY 2023 TCS has invested ₹3,063 
crore in projects to improve environmental and social impacts. These investments, 
along with other mitigation steps, helped the company reduce its Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 71% from base year 2016. These initiatives also help the company to 
position itself as a leader in the climate domain contributing to TCS’ market value.
C) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2 
degree Celsius or lower scenario
Climate related 
scenario
Parameters, assumptions, analytical choices
Transition scenarios 
IEA B2DS
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS takes a multi-level approach to identify climate risk 
and opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down 
analysis of the macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included a) nature 
loss and ecological degradation, b) resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, c) changing customer 
and workforce preferences, d) the rise of extreme weather, e) increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of 
externalities, f) digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and g) rising incomes.
Detailed analysis was conducted of material climate change transition risks and opportunities across value 
chain and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification 
of areas of potential magnification and hedge opportunities.
The key value drivers analysis assesses climate risks and opportunities across 3 stages of the value chain 
including a) Supply Chain (input supplies costs, disruption and access to supplies) b) Operations (carbon costs, 
operating costs, insurance/ damage costs due to disruption of operation) and c) End markets (demand for low 
carbon services/ products, market share and competition). In the transition scenario, the IEA B2DS approach 
has been selected as its more conservative scenario. The inputs included IPCC reports, the NDCs, the SDGs 
and Government of India plan on energy efficiency and solar energy. The assumptions used in the analysis 
also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and increased energy demand.
Changing customer behavior and carbon costs are assessed as a transition risk to TCS with a growing number 
of jurisdictions at regional and national level planning to implement a carbon tax or emission trading scheme.

Sustainability Disclosures | 337
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Physical climate 
scenarios RCP 8.5
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS had a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and 
opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis 
of the macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included a) nature loss and 
ecological degradation, b) resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, c) changing customer and 
workforce preferences, d) the rise of extreme weather, e) increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of 
externalities, f) digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and g) rising incomes.
Detailed analysis was conducted on a) material climate change physical risks and opportunities across 
value chain, and b)assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including 
identification of areas of potential magnification and hedge opportunities. The key value drivers’ analysis 
assesses climate risks and opportunities across 3 stages of the value chain including a) Supply Chain (input 
supplies costs, disruption and access to supplies) b) Operations (carbon costs, operating costs, insurance/ 
damage costs due to disruption of operation) & c) End Markets (demand for low carbon services/ products, 
market share and competition).
The physical risk is assessed using the RCP 8.5 scenario. The RCP 8.5 scenario takes a global warming between 
3-4 degrees above pre-industrial levels which is a conservative scenario and helps us understand the worstcase climate impacts on our operations.
Inputs for the assessment included IPCC reports, the NDCs, the SDGs and Government of India plan on energy 
efficiency and solar energy. The assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of 

Few strategies to mitigate physical risks of climate change include -
1) A robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to respond to climate events.
2) Investments in climate resilient infrastructure (for cyclone, floods).
Risk Management7
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate related risks
Kindly refer to the ‘Enterprise Risk Management’ section in 
Management Discussion and Analysis (Pages 95 to 104), which is 
a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risks
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate- related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management
Metrics and Targets8
A. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. 
Absolute Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3; 
emissions intensity 
Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24) and BRSR section >> Principle 
6 (Pages 168, 169, 170, 175), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Climate-related Opportunities -. Proportion 
of revenue, assets, or other business 
activities aligned with climate-related 
opportunities.
Please refer to the BRSR section >> (Pages 152, 155), which is a part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Remuneration - Proportion of executive 
management remuneration linked to 
climate considerations
Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report >> Remuneration Policy (Page 
122), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
For executive directors, the variable component i.e., commission is based on 
the company’s performance - which includes sustainability - and their individual 
performance.

 TCFD Risk Management A, B and C

 TCFD Metrics and Targets A, B and C

Sustainability Disclosures | 338
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks.
Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24) and BRSR section >> Principle 6 (Pages 168, 169, 170, 175), which is a part of this 
Integrated Annual Report for disclosures on GHG emissions.
Please refer to the ‘Enterprise Risk Management’ section in Management Discussion and Analysis (Pages 95 to 104), which is a part of 
this Integrated Annual Report for emissions related risks.
C. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against 
targets.
Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24, 25), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.

Sustainability Disclosures | 339
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
GRI Content Index9

Report, is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard, UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and TCFD 
framework. The Report also conforms to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and forms the basis of the company’s 
Communication on Progress (CoP) with the UNGC.
The following table provides the mapping of disclosures for FY 2023 against the GRI standard (Comprehensive) requirements and TCFD 
recommendations mapping. TCS is on a continuous journey to advance its’ ESG initiatives and reporting and will continue to evaluate 
and enhance ESG disclosures as the company makes progress.
GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
TCFD Disclosure
Section *
Page No.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
The organization and its reporting practices
 
2-1 Organizational details
• BRSR

2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability 
reporting
• BRSR
146, 148
 
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
• BRSR

2-4 Restatements of information
• BRSR

2-5 External assurance
• BRSR
146, 152
Activities and workers
 
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
• BRSR

2-7 Employees
• BRSR

2-8 Workers who are not employees
• BRSR

Governance
 
2-9 Governance structure and composition
• CG
• BRSR

2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
• CG

2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
• CG

 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the 
management of impacts
• Governance A & B
• CG
114, 115
 
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
• Governance A & B
• BRSR
• CG
• TCFD Disclosures

 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability 
reporting
• Governance A & B
• CG

2-15 Conflicts of interest
• CG

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
• BRSR

2-19 Remuneration policies
• Metrics and Targets A • CG
• BRSR

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
• BRSR

Strategy, policies and practices
 
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
• MDA
• BRSR
• Letter to Shareholders

2-23 Policy commitments
• BRSR
151, 153, 
166, 182
 
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
• BRSR
151, 165, 

2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 
• BRSR
149, 157, 
160, 166, 
179, 181
 
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
• BRSR
153, 173
 
2-28 Membership associations
• BRSR

Stakeholder engagement
 
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
• BRSR

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
• BRSR

 Requirement 7: Publish a GRI content index
* MDA: Management Discussion and Analysis, CG: Corporate Governance Report, BRSR: Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report

Sustainability Disclosures | 340
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
TCFD Disclosure
Section *
Page No.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
 
3-1 Process to determine material topics
• Sustainability 
Disclosures: 
Identification of 
Material Topics

3-2 List of material topics
• BRSR
• Sustainability 
Disclosures: 
Identification of 
Material Topics

3-3 Management of material topics
• MDA
• BRSR
• Sustainability 
Disclosures: 
Identification of 
Material Topics
95, 150, 
151, 160, 
161, 172 

GRI 200: Economic Performance
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
• Financial Capital

201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change
• Risk Management A, 
B and C
• MDA 
• BRSR
95 to 104, 

201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 
plans
• BRSR

GRI 202: Market Presence
 
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 
to local minimum wage
• BRSR

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
 
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
• BRSR

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures
• BRSR

205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
• BRSR

GRI 207: Tax 2019
 
207-1 Approach to tax
• CG

207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management
• CG

207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns 
related to tax
• CG

GRI 300: Environmental Performance
GRI 302: Energy 2016
 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
• TC-SI-130a.1
• BRSR
168, 173
 
302-3 Energy intensity
• TC-SI-130a.1
• BRSR

 Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process
• Metrics and Targets A • BRSR 
• Natural Capital
• CG Report
155, 171, 

GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
 
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
• BRSR
169, 172
 
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
• BRSR

303-3 Water withdrawal
• TC-SI-130a.2
• BRSR

303-4 Water discharge
• TC-SI-130a.2
• BRSR
173, 174
 
303-5 Water consumption
• TC-SI-130a.2
• BRSR

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
 
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas
• BRSR

304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services 
on biodiversity
• BRSR

304-3 Habitats protected or restored
• BRSR

GRI 305: Emissions 2016
 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
• Metrics and Targets B
• BRSR


Sustainability Disclosures | 341
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
TCFD Disclosure
Section *
Page No.
 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
• Metrics and Targets B
• BRSR

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
• BRSR

305-4 GHG emissions intensity
• BRSR
169, 175
 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
• TC-SI-130a.3 
• Metrics and Targets B
• BRSR
• Natural Capital

 Risks related to GHG Emissions
• Metrics and Targets B
• MDA
95 to 104
 
 
 Metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant 
climate related risks and opportunities
• Metrics and Targets C
• Natural Capital

GRI 306: Waste 2020
 
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
• BRSR
155, 156, 

306-3 Waste generated
• BRSR

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
• BRSR

306-5 Waste directed to disposal
• BRSR

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 
criteria
• BRSR
155, 177
 
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken
• BRSR

GRI 400: Social Dimension
GRI 401: Employment 2016
 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
• Human Capital
• BRSR

401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees
• BRSR

401-3 Parental leave
• BRSR

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
 
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
• MDA

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
 
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
• BRSR

403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation
• BRSR
159, 160
 
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
• BRSR

403-6 Promotion of worker health
• BRSR

403-9 Work-related injuries
• BRSR
160, 161
 
403-10 Work-related ill health
• BRSR
160, 161
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
• BRSR 
• Human Capital

404-3 Details of performance and career development reviews 
of employees
• BRSR

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
• Human Capital
• BRSR

405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
• BRSR

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
• BRSR

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
 
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs
• BRSR
172, 179
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
 
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 
taken
• BRSR

Sustainability Disclosures | 342
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23
Ernst & Young Associates LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP identity No. AAB-4321 
Regd. Office : 6th Floor, Worldmark – 1, Asset Area 11, Hospitality District, Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi – 110037, India. 

Independent Assurance Statement 
 
The Management and Board of Directors 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 
Mumbai, India 
 
Scope 
We have been engaged by Tata Consultancy Services Limited to perform a ‘limited assurance 
engagement,’ as defined by International Standards on Assurance Engagements, hereafter referred to 
as the engagement, to report on Tata Consultancy Services Limited Integrated Annual Report FY 23 (the 
“Subject Matter”) for the period from 01st April 2022 to 31st March 2023. 
Other than as described in the preceding paragraph, which sets out the scope of our engagement, we did 
not perform assurance procedures on the remaining information included in the Report, and accordingly, 
we do not express a conclusion on this information. 
Criteria applied by Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
In preparing the integrated report, Tata Consultancy Services Limited applied, The International 
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC framework), and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. GRI 
Standards were specifically designed for the Integrated Annual Report FY 23; As a result, the subject 
matter information may not be suitable for another purpose. 
TCS’s responsibilities 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited management is responsible for selecting the Criteria, and for 
presenting the integrated report in accordance with that Criteria, in all material respects. This 
responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls, maintaining adequate records, and 
making estimates relevant to the preparation of the subject matter, such that it is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
EY’s responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the presentation of the Subject Matter based on the 
evidence we have obtained. 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ISAE 3000’), and 
the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Tata Consultancy Services Limited. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance about 
whether, in all material respects, the Subject Matter is presented in accordance with the Criteria, and 
to issue a report. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our judgment, 
including an assessment of the risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited 
assurance conclusions. 
Our Independence and Quality Control 
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of 
Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, 
and have the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement 
 
 

Sustainability Disclosures | 343
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

EY also applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits 
and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and 
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal 
and regulatory requirements. 
Description of procedures performed 
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from and are less in 
extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained 
had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our procedures were designed to obtain a 
limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion and do not provide all the evidence that would 
be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. 
Although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the 
nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance 
on internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures relating 
to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems. 
A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for 
preparing the integrated report and related information and applying analytical and other appropriate 
procedures 
Our procedures included: 
Conducted interviews with select personnel at sites and corporate teams to understand the 
process for collecting, collating and reporting the subject matter as per Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards; 
Checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly applied in accordance with the 
methodologies outlined in the Criteria; 
Undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data 
Verification of data, on a selective test basis, for the following sites, through consultations 
with the site team and sustainability team; 
Siruseri, Chennai 
Gitanjali Park, Newtown, Kolkata 
Mihan, Nagpur 
Pampanga, Philippines 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
Corporate office, Mumbai 
Execution of an audit trail of claims and data streams, on a selective test basis, to determine 
the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; 
Review of the Company's plans, policies and practices, pertaining to their social, 
environment and sustainable development, so as to be able to make comments on the 
fairness of sustainability reporting; 
Review of the Company's approach towards materiality assessment disclosed in the Report 
to identify relevant issues 
Review of selected qualitative statements in various sections of the integrated report 
We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances 
Emphasis of matter 
The assurance scope excludes: 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st April 2022 to 31st March 
2023) 
Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company 

Sustainability Disclosures | 344
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Data, statements and claims already available in the public domain through Integrated 
Annual Report, or other sources available in the public domain 
The Company's statements that describe the expression of opinion, belief, inference, 
aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention provided by the Company 
The Company’s compliance with regulations, acts, guidelines with respect to various 
regulatory agencies and other legal matters 
Conclusion 
Based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material 
modifications that should be made to the Integrated Annual Report FY 23 for the period from 
01st April 2022 to 31st March 2023, in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. 
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young Associates LLP 
 
 
 
Chaitanya Kalia 
09 June 2023 
Mumbai, India 
 
 
 
 
 

TCS was ranked amongst the second most Valuable IT Services Brand
Brand Finance Awards
Awards & Recognition
Jaguar TCS
Racing 2022
TCS London
Marathon 2022
TCS Summit
North America 2022

TCS Safe Harbor Clause
IT Services
Business Solutions
Consulting
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
www.tcs.com
Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking 
statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and 
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations. 
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to manage growth, 
intense competition among global IT services companies, various factors which may affect 
our profitability, such as wage increases or an appreciating Rupee, our ability to attract and 
retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame 
contracts, client concentration, restrictions on cross-border movement of skilled personnel, 
our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key 
focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete 
and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success 
of the companies in which TCS has made strategic investments, withdrawal of governmental 
fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies 
outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property, cyber attacks or security breaches, 
pandemics, natural disasters and general economic conditions affecting our industry. TCS may, 
from time to time, make additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including 
our reports to shareholders. These forward-looking statements represent only the Company’s 
current intentions, beliefs or expectations, and any forward-looking statement speaks only as 
of the date on which it was made. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any 
forward-looking statements.