Integrated Annual Report 
20 years of value creation 
(2004 - 2024)
2023-20242 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Annual Report | 2023-2024
20 years of creating value for you
Since our IPO in 20042 
 
 
 
 
Backdrop: TCS Gitanjali Park Campus, Kolkata, India

Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and 
business solutions organization that has been partnering with 
many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys for over 56 years. Its consulting-led, cognitive powered, 
portfolio of business, technology and engineering services and 
solutions is delivered through its unique Location Independent 
Agile™ delivery model, recognized as a benchmark of excellence 
in software development.
A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational business 
group, TCS has over 601,000 of the world’s best-trained 
consultants in 54 countries. The company generated 
consolidated revenues of US$29.1 billion in the fiscal year ended 
March 31, 2024, and is listed on the BSE and the NSE in India. 
TCS’ proactive stance on climate change and award-winning 
work with communities across the world have earned it a 
place in leading sustainability indices such as the MSCI Global 
Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For 
more information, visit www.tcs.com
About TCS
Transforming Industries
The TCS’ FY 2023-24 (FY 2024) Integrated Annual Report delves 
into the capability of technological innovations and their impact 
on business models. Technology is increasingly an enabler in 
what enterprises can do to adapt and thrive in this new era. 
Businesses are relying on technologies to help improve their 
competitive advantage, drive strategy and growth. From 
Banking, Retail and Manufacturing to Healthcare and Utilities, 
technology is Transforming Industries in the way they operate, 
and enhance their customer and employee experience.
TCS, with its full services capability and industry specific 
contextual knowledge, has always remained relevant to clients 
and stayed close to them in the past technology cycles. The 
synergistic relationship between Cloud and AI/GenAI technology, 
is ushering in a significant shift in how industries approach 
innovation and efficiency. With over half of the workforce 
trained in AI/ML and Gen AI, TCS will continue to be clients’ 
trusted transformation partner.
Recent Annual Report Themes
FY 2023
Innovate, 
Adapt, Thrive
Innovating for
Greater Futures
FY 2022
Building on Belief
FY 2021
FY 2020
Purpose-driven.
Resilient. Adaptable
Growth and 
Transformation with 
Business 4.0TM
FY 2019

About TCS.............................................................................
Board of Directors................................................................ 
Management Team..............................................................
Letter from the Chairman.................................................... 
Letter from the CEO.............................................................
The Year Gone by.................................................................

Statutory Section
Notice……………………………………….........................................
Directors’ Report.................................................................
Management Discussion and Analysis................................
Awards and Accolades.........................................................
Corporate Governance Report............................................
Corporate Social Responsibility...........................................
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report…….........
Thematic Section
Integrated Reporting Framework
Standalone Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report……………………………....…….....
Standalone Balance Sheet………………………...........................
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss….........................
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity.......................
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows………..........................
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial 
Statements……………………………………………………….................
Statement under section 129 of the Companies Act,
2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies…………………………...
Stakeholder Engagement and Identification of Material 
Topics.…………………...............................................................
Climate Related Disclosures……………………………………………..
GRI Content Index………………………………………....................... 
Sustainability Disclosures
Glossary …………………………..................................................
Independent Auditor’s Report…………...............................…
Consolidated Balance Sheet………………................................
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss…......................
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.....................
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows……..........................
Notes forming part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements………………………………………………….......
Consolidated Financial Statements
Trading old for new: SIX unveils an advanced 
post trading platform…………………………............………...........
Shaping a future of accessibility and financial inclusion.....
Connecting India, Faster: BSNL 4G/5G Network roll-out…
A joint venture gives rise to a digitally powered insurance 
firm..........................…………………………………........................ 
AI for Business Study............................................................ 
Disrupting Industry Boundaries from Transactions to 
Interactions..........................................................................
AI and GenAI Stories............................................................

Content

TCS Integrated Business Model…………………........................
Financial Capital………………………………………….......................
Human Capital…………………………………………….......................
Intellectual Capital…………………………………….........................
Social Capital…………………………………………….........................
Natural Capital……………………………………………......................
Content

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Board of Directors
Aarthi
Subramanian
Keki 
Mistry
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
 
Hanne 
Sorensen 
M M
Al-Noor 
Ramji
M M
O P 
Bhatt
Dr Pradeep Kumar
Khosla 
K Krithivasan
CEO & MD
M M M NE
N G Subramaniam
COO & ED
M M NE
Non-Independent, Non Executive 
Non-Independent, Executive 
Independent, Non Executive 
Board Committees
Chairman
Member
Executive
Committee
Risk Management
Committee*
* Samir Seksaria (Chief Financial Oﬃcer), is also a member of the Committee
Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee
Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee
Audit Committee
Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
Independent, Non-Executive Director
Non-Independent, Executive Director
Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director 

56%
Independent
44%
Non-Independent
Average Age (years) 
Average Tenure on
the Board (years) 
Board Independence (%)
Average Tenure of Independent
Directors on the Board (years) 
Board of Directors 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Team
Industries
Anupam Singhal
Manufacturing
V Rajanna
Technology, Software and Services
Akhilesh Tiwari
Communications, Media and Information Services
K Krithivasan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
Abhinav Kumar
Chief Marketing Officer
Madhav Anchan
General Counsel Legal
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Business Heads
N G Subramaniam
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial Officer
Milind Lakkad
Chief Human Resources Officer
Corporate
Suresh Muthuswami
Chairman – TCS North America
Markets
Amit Bajaj
North America
Amit Kapur
UK & Ireland
Sapthagiri Chapalapalli
Europe
Girish Ramachandran
Growth Markets
Siva Ganesan 
AI.Cloud
Ashok Pai
Enterprise Cognitive Business Operations
Services
Vikram Karakoti
Enterprise Solutions
Regu Ayyaswamy
IOT & Digital Engineering
Ganesa Subramanian Vaikuntam
Cyber Security
Kamal Bhadada
TCS Interactive
Dr. Harrick Vin
Chief Technology Officer
Shankar Narayanan
Banking Financial Services and Insurance
Susheel Vasudevan
Banking Financial Services and Insurance
Krishnan Ramanujam
Consumer Business Group
Debashis Ghosh
Life Sciences, Healthcare, Energy, Resources and Utilities
 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Management Team

Across industries globally, there are multiple mega trends 
that are shaping priorities of businesses: AI, New Energy, 
Supply Chain and Talent. These transitions will require 
substantial investment in technology across industry 
sectors. Your company is making significant investments 
and building capabilities to partner with customers 
during this phase of rapid technological shifts.
Letter from the Chairman 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Letter from the
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
In FY 2024, your company has continued to deliver strong 
performance. I am pleased to share with you that your company 
has crossed annual revenues of ₹240,893 crore, a growth of 
6.8%, over the previous year. With relentless focus on operational 
excellence, this growth has come at an industry leading operating 
margin of 24.6%*, an increase from 24.1% last year. The order 
book for FY 2024 came at an all-time high of US$ 42.7 billion 
supported by strong client relationships and engagement. Client 
metrics continue to exhibit healthy progress with strong client 
additions. Employee retention continues to be at benchmark 
levels in the industry. TCS has been selected as a Top Employer of 
Choice in 32 countries. TCS has retained its ranking as the second 
most valuable global IT services brand, valued at US$19.2 billion, 
an increase of US$2 billion from last year.
The global environment around the world continues to go 
through significant shifts. Post the pandemic, which resulted in 
supply chain shocks, there was an economic slowdown especially 
in developed markets. While initial signs of stability began to 
emerge, the military conflicts have further intensified this year 
and continue to impact the global supply chains. 
After two years of recessionary fears, persistently high 
inflation, and unprecedented monetary tightening, the global 
macro-outlook looks relatively better now with improving 
growth, disinflation, and monetary easing in sight.
Across industries globally, there are multiple mega trends that 
are shaping priorities of businesses: AI, New Energy, Supply 
Chain and Talent. 
GenAI technologies will impact almost every sector and 
country going forward. Enterprises have already invested 
in cloud, data infrastructure and large processing power 
which will aid AI/ GenAI. GenAI will not only improve 
productivity, but also create impact we hitherto have not 
seen or imagined. 
Global energy transition is accelerating, and businesses 
are making clear commitments towards a sustainable 
future. The energy requirement of our fast-changing world 
is enormous. Key is to lower the cost of energy while also 
transitioning to renewables. This transition requires large 
investment in technology, electric mobility, renewable 
power, hydrogen and sustainable fuel. 
*Excludes settlement of legal claim

Letter from the Chairman 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Geo-political challenges are continuing to alter established 
supply chains and companies are rebalancing their supply 
chains to address both resilience and efficiency. New global 
supply chain ecosystems are being created, with India 
playing an important role in advanced manufacturing.
Advanced manufacturing, new technologies like AI, new 
energy, data and business models are changing the future 
of work and are compelling new skillsets to be built for the 
future. 
Secure networks have become a key necessity as data is the 
foundation for businesses of today. These networks power 
everything from predictive analytics and AI to personalized 
customer experiences. As value of data increases, along 
with concerns of privacy and protection, it has rightly 
become a focal point of security for all businesses. 
The key question is what these disruptions mean to the IT 
services industry and how your company is preparing for these?
As enterprises globally prepare to respond to these mega 
trends, we see multiple opportunities for your company. Every 
industry is embracing these trends and their business is being 
shaped for the future. For example:
The deployment of AI and GenAI will significantly help 
financial institutions in both driving efficiency as well 
as target new customers and serve customers in a very 
personalized manner. For example, Insurance claims 
will be processed in a matter of minutes, lending and 
disbursements will become much faster.
Adoption of new energy solutions and AI technology is 
driving the future of automobiles. It is not only driving 
reduction of emissions but also providing a new level of 
customer experience. 
AI is accelerating drug development by screening millions 
of compounds, predicting interactions and generating new 
candidates for testing.
Connected medical devices together with AI and GenAI will 
transform Healthcare in a significant way. It will enhance 
productivity, enable remote care and help overcome 
shortage of skilled resources.
In Advanced manufacturing, an AI-first approach will 
drive new benchmarks in productivity, efficiency and 
sustainability. 
Telecom industry globally is upgrading communication 
infrastructure to 5G/6G. These high speed, low latency 
networks, along with edge compute and AI will 
become the backbone of businesses in future.
These transitions will require substantial investment in 
technology across industry sectors. Your company is making 
significant investments and building capabilities to partner with 
customers during this phase of rapid technological shifts:
In FY 2024, TCS has consolidated AI and Cloud expertise 
with the creation of the AI.Cloud unit. In addition, each 
of the business groups are developing domain-specific 
AI/GenAI offerings relevant to the industry value chain. 
Over 300,000 employees have been upskilled on GenAI 
technologies in FY 2024. TCS’ products and services are 
also being enhanced with AI capabilities. For example, TCS 
BaNCSTM is enriching its product portfolio with integrated 
AI/ML and GenAI capabilities; AI is also being embedded in 
Cybersecurity services to enable predictive capabilities.
To partner with customers on their energy transition 
agenda, TCS is investing in research on green hydrogen, 
biofuels; developing digital platforms to help customers 
reduce Scope 1/2/3 emissions. Our proprietary ESG 
framework enables enterprises to build transparency into 
operations and simplifies compliance reporting.
TCS is pioneering the engineering of the 5G/6G 
communication stacks using open standards. Two 
state-of-the-art labs for future ready communication 
infrastructure and interoperability have been setup at 
Bengaluru and Gurugram. Investments are being made in 
multiple niche technologies such as 5G SA Core, O-RAN 
radios, to build these solutions indigenously.
Your company continues to invest in upskilling its talent 
base of over 600,000 employees. Employees are actively 
leveraging experiential and personalized learning on a wide 
range of emerging technologies, clocking over 51 million 
learning hours in FY 2024. TCS continues to build strong 
talent supply chains with deep partnerships with leading 
educational institutions, shaping the curriculum for new 
skill needs for the future.
On behalf of the Board of Directors of the company, I want to 
thank you for your continued trust, confidence, and support.
Warm regards,
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman

Letter from the CEO1
It is my privilege to be writing to you from this desk as we near 
20 years to our listing since August 25, 2004. Over the last two 
decades, your company’s Revenue and Net Profits have grown 
at a compounded annual growth rate of over 18% each.
It has been almost a full year since my transition as CEO, 
and I am happy to report that it has been a very stable and 
seamless experience for all our stakeholders. During this 
period, we refocused on our industry and technology expertise, 
emphasized and refreshed the core values that define who we 
are as a company, and doubled down on customer centricity 
and employee empathy.
We had a strong finish to the fiscal year FY 2024, with revenue 
for the year at ₹240,893 crore. This is, a growth of 6.8% over 
the previous year (3.4% in constant currency). Demand for 
our services showed remarkable resilience as macroeconomic 
uncertainties and geopolitical volatilities continued in major 
markets through the year.
This growth came with an industry leading operating margin of 
24.6%2. More importantly we exited the year with a quarterly 
operating margin of 26% in Q4, demonstrating our commitment 
to the margin band of 26% to 28%. Our Net Margin was at 
19.3%2.
Dear Stakeholder,
The Earnings Per Share was at ₹127.742, a growth of 10.9% over 
the prior year.
Among the Business Segments, Manufacturing grew 10.6%, Life 
Sciences and Healthcare grew 8.7%, Banking, Financial Services 
and Insurance grew 5.6%, Consumer Business grew 4.9%, 
Communication, Media and Technology grew 4.6%, while Others 
grew 14.5% (YoY in reported currency).
Among geographies, growth was led by emerging markets: Latin 
America grew 21.1%, India grew 20.3%, Middle East & Africa 
grew 14.8% while Asia Pacific grew 4.0%. The UK grew 17.7%, 
Continental Europe grew 6.5%. North America grew 2.3% (YoY in 
reported currency).
We are seeing strong deal momentum across markets resulting 
in double-digit growth in our TCV of US$ 42.7 billion, which 
reflects our deepening partnership with our clients and gives us 
optimism for the medium to long term growth outlook.
In keeping with our capital allocation policy of returning 
substantial free cashflow to shareholders, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of ₹28 per share, bringing the 
total dividend for the year to ₹73 per share. The company also 
successfully completed its fifth buyback program, distributing 
₹17,000 crore to shareholders. For the full year, the company’s 
shareholder payout was ₹47,445 crore, which will be our largest 
payout to date. Our average shareholder payout has been more 
than 100% during the last 5 years.
1GRI 2-22
2Excludes settlement of legal claim
The rise of GenAI has been catching 
customers’ attention, and it promises 
a leap in productivity and accelerates 
the creation of new products and 
services. Although still in the early 
stages of adoption, the use of GenAI is 
expected to transform every industry.
Letter from the CEO

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Overview
Established in 1968, our company has been a pioneer in the 
IT industry, across various technology cycles. At each of these 
defining moments, we refocused our investments, reinvented 
ourselves, and helped clients transform their businesses to stay 
ahead of the technology curve.
During FY 2024, customers continued reprioritization of 
projects in favor of those which are considered businesscritical and where ROI realization is likely faster. We continue 
to see pressure on customers’ discretionary spending. The 
recently won deals are converting into revenue as planned, 
the ongoing engagements started during the pandemic are 
being re-examined for the incremental value generated. While 
transformation remains a key ask, customers are expecting the 
same to be funded through savings from operations. Hence, the 
key engagement themes we saw during the year were around 
cost optimization and cloud transformation.
Demand was led by vendor consolidation, cloud migration 
and transformation, customer and employee experience 
enhancement, operating model transformation, business 
process optimization, supply chain initiatives, sustainability, AI
enablement i.e. creating a cloud and data foundation for AI, and 
early-stage AI-infused transformational engagements.
Today, clients are seeing cloud as a strategy for business 
transformation and growth. The shift to cloud-native products 
and platforms is being fast-tracked, to achieve increased 
collaboration, security, scalability and efficiency. Hybrid,
multi-cloud platforms are now becoming mainstream. Cloud 
adoption is a catalyst for innovation, and a strategy for 
business and growth itself. It provides the unifying digital fabric 
that forms the foundation for a connected future—one
that continues to unfold with each technological advancement, 
including generative AI (GenAI).
The rise of GenAI has been catching customers’ attention, and 
it promises a leap in productivity and accelerates the creation 
of new products and services. Although still in the early stages 
of adoption, the use of GenAI is expected to transform every 
industry. Many of our clients who are early adopters have begun 
experimentation and exploration on various use cases of GenAI, 
with our help.
The Innovation Edge
Exploring innovative uses of GenAI continues to be a key 
focus area. We are helping our customers to use AI to: 
(i) Assist, leveraging AI to supplement tacit knowledge with 
contextual knowledge to boost work effectiveness (ii) Augment, 
accelerating elite performance through collaborative 
intelligence, where humans and machines complement and 
magnify each other’s talents, and (iii) Transform, leaping to a 
knowledge-driven superstructure with fast, consistent, and 
high-quality decision output to deliver new ways of working and 
the full realization of enterprise-wide AI. We have created one 
of the largest AI / ML and GenAI talent pools in the industry. We 
have doubled down on partnerships in areas such as AI, cloud, 
quantum computing and cybersecurity. These early investments 
have given TCS a head start in being a partner in our customers’ 
technology adoption journey.
With our contextual knowledge and domain expertise, 
engineering DNA and intellectual capital, we have been the 
preferred partner for many customers in their strategic
initiatives. This year, we signed several deals that are 
industry- defining in nature. We have included narratives about 
the work we did for BSNL – building an indigenous network, a 
true nation building project and how we built an advanced post 
trading platform for SIX in this Integrated Annual Report.
Our continued investments in Research and Innovation, and in 
building intellectual property, have further strengthened our 
transformational credentials. Many of our earlier R&I programs 
have matured into successful platforms and solutions which 
performed very well this year and helped differentiate our 
growth. We leveraged TCS HOBSTM to transform Celcom Axiata 
Berhad’s core business support systems. For PostNord, TCS 
TwinXTM is helping increase sorter capacity, remove bottlenecks, 
and improve the collection and distribution sort plan. Similarly, 
TCS OmnistoreTM is helping European home improvement 
company Kingfisher orchestrate a faster, smoother, and seamless 
checkout experience.
Building a Skilled Workforce
Our approach to talent is strategic — we consider our employees 
as key stakeholders in our growth. Our ability to cycle through 
different technology and business model changes, continuously 
embrace new knowledge and stay relevant, defines us and gives 
us a significant edge over our competitors.
We have a strength of 601,546 employees, and our LTM attrition 
in IT services was 12.5%, down by 760 bps over the previous 
year. Our workforce continued to be very diverse, with over 152 
nationalities represented and with women making up 35.6% of 
the employee base.
We launched several initiatives this year to 
inculcate a strong engineering culture among 
our employees and build deeper skills in 
market relevant technologies like Cloud, AI, 
Cyber Security and more. TCS is collaborating 
with all the hyperscalers and entering new 
partnerships with other important players in 
the AI ecosystem to upskill at scale and build 
AI computing infrastructure to develop AI 
solutions for our customers.
Letter from the CEO

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Best regards,
K Krithivasan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
We launched several initiatives this year to inculcate a 
strong engineering culture among our employees and build 
deeper skills in market relevant technologies like Cloud, AI, 
Cyber Security and more. TCS is collaborating with all the
hyperscalers and entering new partnerships with other
important players in the AI ecosystem to upskill at scale and 
build AI computing infrastructure to develop AI solutions for our 
customers.
In FY 2024, TCSers logged 51 million learning hours, and 
acquired nearly 5 million competencies. A culture of lifelong 
learning and innovation, by closely linking learning with careers 
and rewards, has placed us as the Global Top Employer for the 
9th consecutive year, across 32 countries — placing us as one in 
only 16 organizations worldwide to achieve this status.
Embracing Aalingana
We have fully adopted Project Aalingana, the Tata group’s 
sustainability roadmap and the aim is to be net zero by
2045, integrating sustainability into business strategy and 
concentrating on three interlinked pillars of the project, i.e., 
promoting the decarbonization of our company and value 
chains; utilizing a systematic, circular economy approach
to reduce resource usage and waste; and protecting and 
regenerating the environment.
We continue to make good progress in our net zero journey, 
on the environmental front. TCS had set a target to reduce its 
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 70% by 2025 and
become net zero by 2030. We are well ahead of our initial Scope 
1 and 2 targets and have achieved a reduction of 80% in Scope 
1 and 2 emissions in FY 2024 over a baseline of 2016. We are 
doing this by increasing use of renewable sources of energy and 
improving energy efficiency.
The company’s strategy for reducing emissions includes addition 
of more green buildings to the company’s real estate portfolio, 
reduction of IT system power usage, responsible sourcing, and 
the use of TCS Clever EnergyTM, which leverages IoT, machine 
learning and AI to optimize energy consumption across 
campuses.
TCS is not only improving its own sustainability but also helping 
clients develop and implement their sustainability strategies 
and improve outcomes. We have built a comprehensive suite of 
over 200 offerings in sustainability services and solutions across 
different industry verticals. These solutions help enterprises 
decarbonize their operations and create net-zero pathways, 
addressing biodiversity loss and growing inequity. We help 
customers embed circularity in their products and services, by 
helping design agile, resilient, and sustainable supply chains and 
promoting reuse, recapture, and recycling.
Passion for Our Purpose

women and youth, to economic opportunities. We continue 
to work with communities across the world, pursuing our 
long-standing commitment to programs in the areas of 
education, literacy for livelihood, skilling for employment, and 
digital entrepreneurship; while exploring areas of healthcare, 
digital inclusion, water, climate and sustainability.
Through clearly defined focus areas and strategic programs, our 
work has impacted the lives of over 7.1 million people. We are 
working with public and social sector organizations to help close 
the literacy gap among the most marginalized adults, helping 
them access government entitlements and improving access to 
livelihood. We are empowering students in government schools 
with 21st century skills, introducing them to careers of the 
future, while empowering and building capacity of the teachers 
and education system.
By working with other private sector organizations, we are 
helping marginalized youth transition from college to meaningful 
careers across a variety of sectors. Our digital entrepreneurs are 
connecting disadvantaged communities in rural and aspirational 
districts across India with front line services in social welfare, 
banking, finance, insurance, health, e-commerce, logistics and 
more.
Our employee volunteer program called HOPE (Hours of 
Purpose by Employees) resulted in over 6.7 million hours 
dedicated to purpose projects across dimensions of biodiversity, 
mental health, climate action, circularity, literacy, education, 
skilling, mentoring, conservation and more covering the 17 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Greater Governance
Governance at TCS encompasses ensuring ethical and 
transparent business conduct, addressing sustainability risks and 
opportunities and aligning robust disclosure requirements under 
the aegis of the board. At TCS, the Tata Code of Conduct serves 
as a guide for all employee behavior.
TCS consciously embeds the highest standards of governance 
in its operations. We have a holistic compliance framework and 
an integrated governance structure that encourages a strong 
commitment to global Environment, Social and Governance 
(ESG) disclosure standards for promoting transparency and 
accountability. As part of the Tata Group, we have long
recognized the ESG stewardship as core to our purpose. We have 
a proud legacy of pioneering positive change, not just within the 
industry but in the communities where we operate as well, and 
our commitment remains steadfast.
Looking Ahead
Our all-time high order book, continued deal flow and pipeline 
velocity give us confidence in our business momentum. Looking 
forward, we see greater opportunities ahead, as businesses 
become more technology-intensive and depend on technology 
to drive competitive differentiation and transform their 
industries. Our integrated business model which drives value 
creation for all our stakeholders, will continue to help us benefit 
from each new wave of technology change, and be a force 
multiplier for our growth and leadership in years to come. We 
thank you for your continued support in our journey ahead.
Letter from the CEO

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

The Year Gone By
Launched TCS Pace Port™ London, the company’s 
sixth global research and co-innovation hub, which 
is set to become a dynamic center for cuttingedge technology research and development in 
the region. The Pace Port will focus on innovation 
across a cross-section of industries, government 
priorities and critical national infrastructure while 
creating an ecosystem of experiences.
Announced a 15-year expansion of its 
partnership with Aviva, the UK’s leading 
insurance, wealth and retirement provider, 
to transform Aviva’s UK life business and 
enhance customer experience leveraging 
the TCS BaNCSTM platform. As part of this, 
the end-to-end policy administration and 
servicing will expand to cover over 5.5 
million policies.
Announced a final dividend of ₹28 per 
share, taking the total dividend for the year to ₹73 per share. 
The company also completed its fifth successful buyback 
returning ₹17,000 crore to shareholders, wherein the buyback 
process was completed in record time of 63 days. The total 
shareholder payout for the year was ₹47,445 crore.
Recognized as a Global Top Employer by the Top Employers 
Institute for the ninth consecutive year, for TCS’ pioneering 
employee engagement and talent development initiatives. TCS 
was also named a top employer in 32 countries and regions, 
including Europe, the UK, the Middle East, North America, Latin 
America, and South-East Asia.
Ranked the #1 IT service provider for customer satisfaction 
in Europe in an independent survey of over 2,000 CXOs of 
the continent’s top IT spenders by Whitelane Research, for 
the 11th consecutive time. The study also revealed that TCS 
demonstrated an ‘exceptional’ level of performance across five 
key IT domains: Digital Transformation, Workplace Services, 
Security Services, Application Services and Cloud Services, where 
TCS scored more than 80%, and maintained a healthy lead 
compared to industry average scores. 
Launched an AI Experience Zone to foster hands-on proficiency 
in AI and GenAI for its employees. Within this immersive 
environment, TCS employees can explore, engage, and 
experiment with cutting-edge GenAI-powered applications, 
creating innovative use cases, with all necessary guardrails and 
while upholding Responsible AI principles. 
Ranked the second most valuable IT services brand (brand 
value up 11.5% to US$19.2 billion) by Brand Finance, with the 
incremental US$2 billion growth being the highest absolute 
growth posted among the Top 25 leading IT firms in the world.
Former Executive Director, Phiroz Vandrevala, passed away in 
January 2024. He was a key part of the leadership team and 
made many significant contributions, such as being part of the 
efforts to take TCS public in its IPO in 2004, opening-up new 
markets, mentoring a new generation of TCSers, and in building 
a strong foundation for the company in the life and pensions 
industry. 
Enabled Europe’s most modern post-trade platform with 
Euroclear Finland, the national central securities depository 
of Finland, to integrate its core platform with the European 
securities settlement engine. This transformation program 
ensures easier cross-border settlements for investors in Finnish 
securities, attract more investment into the country, improve 
access to capital for Finnish issuers and also reduce cross-border 
settlement risks and costs for investors.
Featured on FORTUNE® 
Magazine’s 2024 list 
of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies, also 
featured in the Forbes 
Global 2000 Rankings of 
the largest companies in 
the world. 
From Fortune, ©2024 Fortune Media IP Limited. 
All rights reserved. Used under license.
The Year Gone By

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sponsored 13 running events through the year, including the 
TCS New York City Marathon, TCS Amsterdam Marathon, TCS 
London Marathon, TCS Toronto Waterfront Marathon and 
TCS Lidingöloppet, where total distance covered by the runners 
crossed more than 80 million miles. 
TCS New York City Marathon
TCS London Marathon
TCS Toronto Waterfront Marathon
Selected by ASX, Australia’s primary 
securities exchange to provide 
a next generation clearing and 
settlement platform to service the 
Australian market. TCS will leverage 
its flagship product TCS BaNCS for 
Market Infrastructure to enable the 
transformation, replacing ASX’s existing 
platform for cash equities clearing and 
settlement. 
Partnered with The Munch Museum in Oslo, to 
create immersive and interactive drawing experiences for local 
visitors and global audiences. Scientists from TCS Research 
will leverage their expertise in AI and Machine Learning to 
bring Edvard Munch’s artworks and creative process to life 
through the power of digital innovation. TCS will also provide IT 
consultancy, collaborative workshops, and talent exchanges to 
help create immersive museum experiences that showcase the 
future of art.
Professor Dan Johnson, Pro Vice-Chancellor – Research, Innovation 
and Enterprise, Macquarie University; K. Krithivasan, CEO & MD, 
TCS; and Girish Ramachandran, President, TCS Growth Markets at 
the launch of the TCS GoZero Hub in Sydney.
Paid tribute to the passing away of Mr. Y P Sahni, one of the 
members of the original founding team at TCS, who laid the 
foundations of the company and served as the President till his 
retirement in 1996. 
Signed a multi-year partnership with ASDA in a divestiture 
and digital transformation deal, to help implement a new 
organization-wide IT operating model, following its divestiture 
from Walmart. The strategic partnership will leverage TCS’ cloud, 
AI, and security solutions to help ASDA deliver the divestiture 
smoothly, on-time and securely, in addition to further enabling 
ASDA in enhancing its customer experience and innovation 
capabilities to help increase their market share and retain price 
leadership.
Selected by TPG Telecom, Australia’s leading 
telecommunications company, as a strategic technology 
transformation partner, to simplify and streamline internal 
systems and platforms, enhance customer journeys and 
products, and increase digitisation. This will help TPG Telecom 
become Australia’s best digital telco by delivering great value 
connectivity services to end customers.
Partnered with Macquarie University to launch the TCS GoZero 
Hub, a research and innovation center to guide Australian 
organizations in their journeys towards net zero carbon 
emissions. Aligning with the central themes of COP28, this 
hub will focus on five core themes – energy transition, carbon 
management, nature positive future, circular economy and 
sustainable waste management, and climate adaptation and 
resilience – and how to limit and prepare for future climate 
change. The TCS GoZero Hub will also support education 
pathways, providing relevant skills and knowledge to prepare 
students for successful, future-focused careers. 
The Year Gone By

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

The signing of the Swiss Securities Clearing 
Corporation (SECOM) deal in 1989, marked 
TCS’ entry on the global stage, competing 
with a select set of large consulting firms for 
executing large, complex programs involving 
deep domain expertise. SIX’ mission critical 
core platform was originally built by TCS, and 
was one of the world’s first online real-time 
settlement systems.
Selected by BSNL, state-owned telecom 
operator of Government of India, 
to roll out a modern 4G/5G mobile 
communication infrastructure across 
India covering 100K telecom sites, as part 
of its efforts to build indigenous telecom 
technology and local manufacturing of 
the telecom gear. 
Partnered with JLR, a large UK based 
multinational automobile company, to 
accelerate digital transformation across its business, 
TCS will deliver a broad range of services spanning application 
development & maintenance, enterprise infrastructure 
management, cloud migration, cybersecurity, and data services. 
TCS will help JLR transform to a leaner and scalable operating 
model with a future-ready digital core, by leveraging new 
technologies to transform IT operations and adopting new ways 
of working.
Choosen by British Council, the UK’s international organization 
for educational opportunities and cultural relations, to transform 
its professional services function that includes Finance, 
Procurement, Human Resources and Digital & Technology. TCS 
will leverage its contextual knowledge, deep domain expertise 
and proprietary platforms to help develop more innovative 
and user-friendly services. The partnership will also enable the 
British Council to focus on improving the quality and efficiency 
of services, ultimately leading to an enhanced customer 
experience. 
Selected as a strategic partner by the Government of India to 
transform the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) platform, into 
a world-class platform. The project will enable growth and scale, 
improve inclusivity for MSME enterprises, enhance data analytics 
for improved supply-chain operations and provide enriched user 
experience through innovation and domain expertise of TCS.
Partnered with SIX, the operator of the Swiss and Spanish 
financial market infrastructures, to transform its post trade 
market infrastructure, which offers greater flexibility, security, 
and ease of maintenance and its modern, cloud-ready 
architecture can also integrate more easily with digital 
ecosystems, opening-up possibilities of innovative new products 
and services. The program is more scalable and currently 
processes more than 4 million transactions per day, covering 
more than 60 global markets.
The Year Gone By

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Selected by Nest, UK’s largest workplace 
pension scheme, to digitally transform 
its scheme administration services 
with a future-ready, digitally enabled, 
omnichannel platform powered by TCS 
BaNCSTM. TCS will leverage the latest 
technologies and data analytics to deliver 
enhanced, personalized, and self-directed 
experiences to members. This will enable 
Nest’s 12 million members and 1 million 
employers to access the right information at 
the right time, in the way that suits them best.
Awarded a 10-year contract by the UK’s Department for 
Education (DfE) to manage the scheme administration services 
and further enhance customer experiences for the Teachers’ 
Pension Scheme in England and Wales. TCS’ future-ready, 
digitally enabled, omnichannel platform, powered by TCS 
BaNCSTM, will enable accurate administration of pension records, 
payment of benefits, effective scheme finance management, 
proactive member engagement and easy access to information.
Engaged by Standard Life International DAC, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Phoenix Group, to transform its 
operating model and enhance the customer experience for its 
policyholders in Europe, using the TCS Digital Platform for Life 
and Pensions, powered by TCS BaNCS. TCS will set up a customer 
operations center in Germany, and a future-ready Life and 
Pensions Digital Platform for Germany and Austria. As part of the 
transformation, TCS will create comprehensive, omnichannel, 
journey-based digital experiences for policyholders and advisors.
Celebrated 20 years in Mexico by inaugurating a new office in 
Monterrey, becoming TCS’ ninth office in the country overall, 
with a state-of-the-art building which is one of the tallest in the 
cities. TCS serves more than 250 clients out of these centers. 
At the 2023 TCS New York City 
Marathon Expo at the Javits 
Center in New York City, two-time 
Olympic marathoner Des Linden 
(right) examines a digital twin of 
her heart being developed by 
Tata Consultancy Services, next to 
Dr. Srinivasan Jayaramen, Principal 
Scientist at TCS. TCS is developing 
a digital twin version of her heart 
to showcase how digital twin 
technology is set to transform 
how elite athletes train, compete, 
and manage their health while 
demonstrating the power and 
potential of personalized health 
and wellness. (Photo credit: Joe 
Hale) 
Partnered with Dassault Systèmes through its Living Heart 
Project that unites an ecosystem of cardiovascular researchers, 
educators, medical device developers, regulatory agencies 
including US FDA, and practicing cardiologists, to develop and 
validate realistic digital simulations of the human heart. The TCS 
Bio Digital Twin is a biophysics-based high-fidelity computational 
model developed by TCS’ researchers, to enable investigation 
of the function of a particular human organ remotely and 
non-invasively.
Created the first-ever digital heart of long-distance runner, 
two-time Olympian, and Boston Marathon champion Des 
Linden. The twin will help see, measure, and monitor the 
heart going through significant stress—and predict with 
high accuracy how it will perform, to transform how the 
athlete trains.
The Year Gone By

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

CUSTOMER
ENGAGEMENT
Sales, Project Management, 
Delivery, Quality Management
Talent Acquisition
Talent Engagement
Talent Development
Research & Innovation
Products & Platforms
Services & Solutions
Value
 
Sources of funds from business 
operations, financing or investing 
activities
Financial capital
Operations
Partners 
Technology and 
Co-Innovation Network (COIN)
Contextual
Knowledge
Customer
Goodwill/Brand
Value/CSR/Taxes
Stakeholder
Payout, Reserves
lle
Inve
stor
s, C
ust
ers
Emp
loye
es, 
uni
tie
Goo
dwi
Ren
abl
e a
n-r
ene
wab
Res
our
ces
mot
iva
tio
n o
f e
Skil
ls, 
ete
nci
es,
 
cap
abil
itie
s, k
wle
e a
 
mai
n k
now
led
nte
xtu
al k
now
led
Int
elle
ctu
al P
rop
erty
TCS Integrated Business Model
Value Creation using the Five Capitals
TCS Integrated Business Model

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Financial Capital
TCS’ longevity is a testimony to the strength of our business model and our ability to reinvent ourselves in an ever-evolving technology 
landscape to stay relevant to our customers while remaining focused on creating value for all our stakeholders.
Outcomes 
Best in class proﬁtability and strong 
balance sheet provide greater ability 
to invest in newer capabilities and to 
weather economic downturns
Superior Return 
Ratios
Sustained long term 
cashflow
Consistently high 
shareholder returns
TCS Value Creation and Distribution1
FY 2023
Revenue from operations
Employee cost
Other cost of operations *
Community Investments
Tax expense *
R&D and innovation expense
Shareholder payout including
proposed final dividend
225,458
240,893
100.0
6.8
127,522
140,131
58.2
9.9
43,699
41,451
17.2
(5.1)
2,500
2,751
1.1
10.0

0.4
10.0
14,604
16,262
6.8
11.4
42,079
47,445
19.7
12.8
FY 2024 
% of FY 2024 Revenue 
Y-o-Y Growth (%) 
₹ crore
* Excludes settlement of legal claim in FY 2024

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Mar

Aug

TCS
BSE IT
Absolute Share Price Return
(20 Years of Listing 2004-2024)
Issue Price on 25th Aug 2004: ₹850
Closing Price as on 31st Mar 2024: ₹3,884
3 Times
1:1 Bonus 
5 Times
Share Buyback#
₹4,186 per share
Dividends paid#
3,655
1,775
Baseline2 
= 100
Aug

Mar

1 GRI 201-1
2Adjusted for Bonus shares
# From listing till Jan’2024, not considered 
while calculating share price return
Financial Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

10.1%
 
11.2%
77.5%
Invested Funds
Capex
M&A
Shareholder Distribution
 
1.2%

(₹ crore)





2021*


2024*
38,580
42,481
48,453
54,237
59,311
Revenue Trend
CAGR 10.5%
Operating Proﬁt Trend
Cash Usage for the last 20 years #
# includes proposed ﬁnal dividend

2021*


2024*

2021*


2024*
Earnings per share
CAGR 9.0%
(Amount in ₹)
# For the period FY 2005 to FY 2024
156,949
164,177
191,754
225,458
240,893
86.19
89.27
103.62
115.19
127.74
32,369
38,802
39,949
41,965
45,097
(₹ crore)
Operating Proﬁt
Operating Margin
OCF and Cash Conversion
(₹ crore)
Operating Cash Flow (OCF)
OCF to Net Proﬁt Ratio
Shareholder Payouts
* Excludes provision (in FY 2021) and settlement (in FY 2024) of legal claim
24.6%
25.9% 25.3%
24.1% 24.6%
100.1%
116.2%
104.2%
99.6% 96.8%

2021*


2024*
31,895
33,873
38,010
42,079
47,445#
(₹ crore)
Shareholder Payout (including Dividend, 
Special Dividend, Buyback and taxes)
Shareholder Payout ratio 
98.6%
101.5%
99.2%
99.8%
101.8%
100%+
Average 
Payout 
over last 
5 years
Financial Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Workforce
Globally distributed,
highly localized
601,546
Employees
Revert to normal 
range in FY 2024
Talent Retention
12.5%
LTM
attrition in IT
services
Talent Diversity and Inclusion
TCS Employees by Region, Age and Gender
Human Capital1
Best in Class Talent Management
1GRI 401-1, GRI 405-1
3 Generations
89% Millennials
~214,000+ Women
35.6% of workforce
58%+ Increase in senior women 
 executives over last 5 years
797 Unique patents ﬁled by women

Nationalities
Rising up the ranks
% Women improved at mid- and senior
levels over last 5 years
Junior
Middle
31.3%
30.0%
Senior
12.4%
13.9%
FY 2020
FY 2024
44.0%
41.6%
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
21.4%
28.9%
12.0%
23.8%
2.4%
10.2%
0.2%
1.1%
India
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
3.9%
9.2%
11.5%
19.4%
8.7%
4.5%
16.2%
North America
9.6%
9.0%
9.8%
<30
yrs
14.0%
20.4%
10.2%
11.4%
15.6%
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
United Kingdom
Male
Female
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
Europe
6.2%
9.7%
12.6%
18.9%
8.1%
18.7%
5.6%
20.2%
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
10.3%
21.2%
12.2%
26.3%
6.0%
15.5%
2.1%
6.4%
Emerging Markets 
APAC
40-50
yrs
>50
yrs
30-40
yrs
<30
yrs
12.6%
12.6%
17.8%
21.7%
9.3%
17.8%
1.8%
6.4%
26.6%
Human Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

TCS is invested in its people for the long term, 
supporting them to build meaningful careers they 
aspire to, supporting the development of its people, 
providing them with opportunities and tools for them 
to continuously develop and reinvent their skills and 
careers, so they remain at the cutting edge of innovation.
Talent Development 
Learning 
Hours

million
Competencies 
acquired

million 
Senior
Middle
Junior 115

Male
Female
Average Learning Hours 
per employee2 87.1 hrs
2GRI 404-1
Contextual 
Masters
73,000 CMs
27% Women
AI. Cloud Certiﬁcation
Goal to make "Every TCSer 
GenAI Ready by 2025". 
Over half of the workforce 
already trained on AI/ML 
including GenAI.
Focused Training
Building a strong 
Engineering culture 
with focus on Software 
and Secuware Training
Initial Learning 
Program
Resumed 100% 
in-person training 
for freshers
Mid-level 
Training
65,000 completed 
since inception
25,000 deployed in 
opportunities 
matching their skills
TCS Elevate 
423,000 employees 
pursued learning linked 
to career growth
Engagement with Purpose
Headcount
TCS Talent Pool
 (2004 - 2024)
601k+
300k+
33k+
 



Human Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

6 Pace Ports Co-Innovation Hubs
2,900+
70+ 
New York, Amsterdam, Toronto, Pittsburgh, Tokyo, London
Start-up Partners
Academic Partners
Focus Areas of TCS’ R&I: 
The TCS Pace Innovation Ecosystem
A platform that brings together these three rings and the layers 
within them to create a comprehensive and engaged ecosystem 
of innovation. Pace is geared toward building innovation 
experiences and systems of rigor in innovation to create tangible 
business outcomes for customers speedily and at scale.
Intellectual Capital
5,500+ 
3,919 / 8,040

Researchers and Innovators
Patents Granted / Filed (cumulative)
Tier-1 Publications
40+ 
Research and Innovation centers 
Purposeful AI
Digital Sciences
Computing Futures
Sustainable Futures
Customers
Highlights
Meta Materials for Communications
New Materials Formulation
Li-ion Batteries
Catalysis
Effluent Treatment 
Physical Sciences
Behavioural and Business Sciences
Emotional Wellbeing for Enterprise 
Consumer Behavior in Retail
Gamified Engagement and Learning 
Understanding Personae in Connected Homes
Life Sciences
Generative Design in:
Drug (including vaccines and proteins) design and 
synthesis
Molecules, Formulations and Manufacturing 
Processes
Computing / Data Sciences
Generative AI
High Performance Computing and Al
Multicloud deployments
Cyber Cloud- Data Residency, Compliance, 
Security- Resilience on Cloud
Low Energy Hardware, Low Energy High Performance 
Computing
Edge Hardware for Compute and Communication
Quantum Communications
Robo Logistics
Learning Aided Adaptive Software
Digital Transformation for Applications
Al in Software Development Lifecycle and Data 
Analytics
Al for Cybersecurity
Privacy preserving Service Operations, Privacy 
preserving Biometrics, Trustworthy Al
Remote Sensing Spacetech for Sustainability and 
Infrastructure
Energy Internet and Carbon Market
Sustainability in Manufacturing, Carbon Capture, 
NetZero Transition and Renewables
Intellectual Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Digital platform to optimally automate and manage IT 
processes.
GenAI driven digital products to optimally and securely 
modernize legacy applications and data.
Processed 325 billion records for data privacy and 15 
billion records for data quality
Automated generation of 60+ mn lines of Java and 
JavaScript code, with over 50% productivity gains
Analyzed 600 million lines of legacy code, delivering a 
productivity improvement of 20-30%
110 new wins in FY 2024
Scalable Agile DevSecOps platform to accelerate 
software development and delivery
29 new wins in FY 2024
Business solutions, foundational technology and tools
that bring together combinatorial power of next-gen
technologies including DLT/AI, across varied
industries like BFSI, Supply Chain, Energy, Utilities and
eGovernance. 
6 new wins and 3 go-lives in FY 2024
Market leading autonomous enterprise platform 
encompassing unified observability, AI platform and 
end to end closed loop automation 
130+ deals closed, 20 new customers went live in FY 
2024 with AI and GenAI use cases 
Business Health Monitoring (BHM), Business 
Transaction Monitoring (BTM), hybrid and multi 
CloudOps with FinOps capabilities
425+ new wins in FY 2024
65 million candidates assessed
More than 2,900 question papers delivered in FY 2024, 
54% increase YoY 
Over 3,100 corporates have access to fresher talent 
pool through TCS iON NQT 
Comprehensive suite, powered by AI, for digital 
transformation of drug development and clinical trials
1250+ studies onboarded by TCS ADD Platform 
More than 1 million adverse event case processed by 
TCS ADD Platforms using AI.
2 new wins and 4 go-lives in FY 2024
Plug and play SaaS based business platform to digitally 
transform business, network and revenue management 
domains of subscription-based businesses
3 new wins and 5 go-lives in FY 2024
MasterCraft
Products and Platforms
ADD
29 new wins and 38 go-lives in FY 2024, including 5 
large insurance platform wins
Services more than 30% of the global population for 
Banking, 100+ Countries covered
8 out of top 10 custodian and asset management firms 
run on TCS BaNCS
Largest independent solution provider in financial 
market infrastructure, serving over 20 countries with 
mission critical systems
Market leader in Indian brokerage and trading system, 
with 35% volume market share, across front, back 
office, risk and professional clearing
Largest BpaaS provider, delivering digital 
transformation to the UK Life & Pension 
industry, serving 1 in 3 UK citizens
Services more than 140 million property and casualty 
policies globally; also leading India’s general insurance 
segment
AI powered enterprise digital twin covering customer, 
product and process to help business leaders simulate 
and optimize enterprise decisions, predict and proactively 
manage outcomes
13 new wins and 8 go-lives in FY 2024
Helps businesses achieve:
Enhanced and accelerated cashflows upto 10%
Upto 10-15% increase in revenues
Upto 2X faster time to market
Build a sustainable competitive advantage
Enhanced customer experience
Improved asset utilization by 5%
AI powered composable commerce platform that 
provides a unified, personalized and ‘always on’ 
checkout experience for shoppers across channels, 
helping businesses roll out omnichannel customer 
journeys and new services quickly without worrying 
about channel constraints
2 wins and 1 go-live in FY 2024
AI /ML powered merchandise optimization platform 
that enables retailers to unlock exponential value by 
optimizing space, mix, price in an integrated manner
1 new win in FY 2024
Intellectual Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Investors
TCS is seen as a benchmark in its outreach to investors, its 
transparency and disclosures, and communication of its 
longer- term strategy. For the last many years, its Investor 
Relations program has been winning awards based on surveys of 
investors and analysts across Asia. 
Industry Analysts
TCS has a robust engagement program with research firms and 
industry analysts. Briefing industry analysts and participating 
in competitive assessments ensures visibility with prospective 
clients who use such reports to evaluate vendors.
Branding 
TCS posted the highest growth in brand value in the IT Services 
sector this year, increasing the value of its brand by US$ 2 billion 
according to Brand Finance. Its current brand valuation of 
US$ 19.2 billion cements its position among the Top 2 Brands 
globally in its industry. The Kantar BrandZ ‘Most Valuable Global 
Brands 2023’ report also ranked TCS among the Top 50 brands 
globally, across all industries. 
Assessment in which TCS 
was ranked a Leader by 
Research Firms
Rev per US$ 1 Million+ Client (US$ Mn)
Large Client Metrics
Outcomes
Expanding participation across broad range of stakeholders 
across the enterprise including business heads, CMOs, 
CROs, COOs, CFOs and even CEOs
Continual expansion of customer relationships in terms of 
services consumed
Highly satisfied customers
2023/24 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
2020/21 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
2014 EUROPE
Whitelane Research
TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted in fostering 
long term relationships with its customers, suppliers, a highly 
skilled workforce, continuous increase in market share, maintain 
integrity and strong ethics as a responsible corporate citizen and 
transform industries through a proven track record in longer 
term value creation. All of this has signiﬁcantly enhanced the 
company’s brand value, which is a quantiﬁable measure of its 
social capital with stakeholders.
Customers 
Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ business strategy. It 
seeks to deliver superior outcomes, and build strong, enduring 
relationships. By proactively investing in building newer 
capabilities, and launching new services and solutions with 
which to add value in newer parts of the client’s business, TCS 
continually expands and deepens its client relationships.
Social Capital
600+
Meetings1 

Hours
Source: Brand Finance
(US$ billion)
TCS Brand Valuation
TCS hosted 
customer summits 
across North 
America, Europe, 
Japan and APAC, 
bringing together 
distinguished C-suite 
executives, partners 
and thought leaders, 
with the focus shifting to 
face-to-face interaction and 
collaboration in FY 2024.
1 includes multiple investors in group meetings
$14.9
$16.8
$17.2
$19.2
$13.5







Growth 9.4%
 $20.6
 $22.5
FY 2014
FY 2004
FY 2024
FY 2020
FY 2024

US$ 20Mn+
US$ 50Mn+
US$ 100Mn+
Social Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

 
 
 
 
Our CSR programs on Education, Livelihood, Employment, Entrepreneurship ensured the
inclusion of marginalized talent through social transformation
Ignite My Future
Over 312K 
students and 6K 
educators gained 
computational 
thinking and 21st 
century skills
goIT 
Over 118K students 
and 3.6K educators 
applied digital 
innovation skills’
Literacy as a Service 
(Laas)
Youth Employment 
Program (YEP)
Over 20K adults 
gained literacy 
and access to 
government 
entitlements
23K marginalized 
youth gained 
industry readiness
Tata Medical 
Center, Kolkata 
and Cancer 
Institute, Chennai 
Students who completed 
goIT demonstrated 
understanding of how 
technology can be 
used to improve their 
community
LaaS program participants 
encouraged their own 
children especially girls to 
go to school
Over 173K 
new patient 
consultations
Engaged over 345 
customers, creating 
138 purpose 
partnerships
BridgeIT
Providing valuable 
rural India serving 
312K beneficiaries
348 active 
entrepreneurs in 
FY 2024
Higher earnings for 
women BridgeIT 
participants compared to 
other self-employed in 
rural India
3.4x 
4.6x 
96% 
90% 
₹953 crore 
CSR Spend
7.1 million 
beneficiaries
2 GRI 413-1
Community2 
Enhancement in income 
for women who complete 
YEP and get employment 
in comparison to an 
average worker in rural 
area
143K+ volunteers
6.7 million hours
Social Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

 
Natural Capital
Energy Management and GHG Emissions Reduction
Outcomes
Achievements
Target: 
70% reduction of Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 
(vs base year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030
Initiatives for reduction of Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions:
Energy Efficiency and Optimization 
New campuses designed as per green building 
standard and innovative technology used.
Optimize operational energy efficiency with real-time 
monitoring and controls.
Upgrade legacy equipment/utilities 
Green IT
Procurement of energy efficient IT equipment.
Data center and distributed IT power management. 
Greater use of Renewable Energy
Maximize roof top solar capacities and RE 
procurement.
67.3%
% total office space (for India) 
as per Indian Green Building 
Council standards.
74%
Renewable energy
as % of total energy consumed
We have reduced our absolute carbon footprint across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 80% in FY 2024 
over a baseline of 2016, exceeding our target achievement by 10%, one year ahead of time
1.7 PUE
weighted average PUE at
 TCS data centers
10.2 MWp
Rooftop solar generation 
capacity across TCS campuses
Reduced
Energy
Consumption
and…
20%
… reduced TCS’
Carbon footprint.
80%
25%
…Increased
Use of
Renewable
Energy..
19x
Total Energy
Consumed
in GWh
Total Scope
1 + 2
emissions in 
‘000 tCO2e
Value chain 
emissions 
in '000 tCO2e
Renewable
Energy 
Consumed 
in GWh








18.6

TCS combines its strong sense of purpose with digital expertise 
and innovation to drive not only its own sustainability 
journey, but also that of its customers, business partners and 
stakeholders.
The company’s environmental stewardship rests on four pillars: 
carbon footprint mitigation, water conservation and recycling, 
waste reduction and recycling, and preserving biodiversity.
Initiatives for reduction of Scope 3 emissions:
Employee Commute: 
Transition to transport fleet of cabs and buses with EV.
EV charging facility for private vehicles of employees. 
Employee engagement for use of public transport.
Business Travel: 
Reduce business travel through use of collaborative 
tools and technology.
Use of flights having sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) or 
other options, as and when these are commercially 
available.
Natural Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Water Conservation
Waste Reduction and Reuse
Biodiversity
Target: 
3% YoY reduction in freshwater consumption across
owned campuses
Target: 
Reduction in waste generation, maximizing recycling and 
reuse to divert waste to landfill
Conservation and enhancement initiatives within TCS 
campuses.
Maximize recycling of all recyclable waste like e-waste, 
office paper, packaging and plastic wastes
TCS believes in preserving and enriching the biodiversity 
within its campuses. Various initiatives have helped 
support
600+ species of flora
200+ species of fauna
41,000+ trees present across 18 TCS campuses in 
India.
95%
Food waste treated in biodigesters and organic waste 
converters in owned campuses
Initiatives: 
Initiatives include conservation, sewage treatment 
and reuse, rainwater harvesting (RWH) and employee 
awareness. All new campuses have been designed for 
higher water efficiency, treatment and recycling of 
sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
2.47 Bn 
Liters of 
fresh water 
consumed in 
FY 2024
2.8%
Water from RWH; 
88.5% from third 
party sources; 
8.7% from 
ground water
87%
Water recycled
(TCS owned 
campuses)
18.5%
increased water
consumption Y-o-Y 
due to increase in 
‘RTO’ by employees
Natural Capital

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

With 13,500 trade legs per minute, 13 million transactions per 
day and few trillion USD worth of securities in custody, SECOM 
is the electronic post trading system used by SIX for automated 
processing and settlement of transactions. Built by TCS, SECOM 
was one of the world’s first real-time gross settlement (RTGS) 
systems and formed the backbone of the Swiss capital market. 
But can a three-decade old system meet the strenuous demands 
of modern times? TCS and SIX both knew the answer was ‘no’. 
SIX decided to embark on a journey of transformation yet again, 
backed by three decades of relation and trust it shares with TCS. 
Back in 1990, when SIX was looking to enhance the scalability 
of its batch system to meet the market demands of the future, 
TCS proposed a new platform called SECOM. This platform 
would be real time, cutting-edge, scalable, and modular with 
robust architecture. Enabling straight-through processing, it was 
amongst the most sophisticated systems of its time. Over the 
years, TCS continued to manage this system for SIX.
Three decades later, SIX partnered with TCS to accomplish 
another mega feat. TCS executed a PoC to demonstrate the 
CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
Trading old for new: SIX unveils an 
advanced post trading platform
To take this forward, TCS tapped into its design labs to create 
a platform that reimagined the user experience and enabled 
faster response to queries. TCS was able to fast-track this 
development with an ingenious automation solution which 
migrated over 500 billion records in record time, saving 10-12 
months’ time from the overall process.
The flexible, secure, and cloud-ready platform is economical 
and makes SIX’ internal operations and process more 
efficient. The ability to customize individual post trade 
processes depending on market requirements in different 
parts of the world has set SIX on a steady path of growth and 
expansion. With this new and advanced system, SIX became 
more modern, up to date and market-friendly – boosting 
customer-centricity and overall competitiveness – and 
maintaining its pole position in the Swiss financial market. 
feasibility of modernizing the existing system. TCS showed 
how this transformation would serve SIX for decades to 
come – making it more efficient, enabling speed and growth for 
the firm. Placing trust in TCS’ execution capabilities, SIX decided 
to go ahead with the transformation. Thus, the next journey 
from mainframe to an open and more resilient system began. 
This is going to give a second life to our core 
CSD platform and make our relationship with 
TCS even stronger. We are conscious of the pressure 
and high expectations that we have put on TCS for the most 
complex project in recent years, but the TCS team has lived up 
to the expectations with an outstanding level of commitment. 
Our main goal is to become more customer-centric and user 
friendly and we have achieved it with this platform upgrade. I 
am sure that we can count on TCS for the many challenges that 
SIX has ahead.
Arturo Merino 
Head IT, Securities Services 
SIX
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
With a commitment to empower all individuals to access 
financial services equitably, Experian PLC, a global leader in 
consumer and business credit reporting services, has taken a 
significant step towards bridging the gap in financial inclusion for 
differently abled people in the UK. 
As the Dublin, Ireland headquartered company helped 
differently abled people take control of their credit with 
complete access to their data and offers, it discovered that 
this demographic is mostly under-served. Organizations across 
utilities, retail and banking are not aware or not able to cater 
to their support needs effectively, providing the company an 
opportunity to get closer to its customer and deliver more 
accessible products and services. 
Shaping a future of accessibility and 
financial inclusion 
With TCS as a partner, Experian developed the Support Hub 
to help vulnerable people get easier access to essential 
services like banking, utilities, telecom and retail. For the 
first time, consumers can disclose their support needs to 
multiple organizations at the same time and have complete 
control over their data with an intuitive and accessible UX 
designed exclusively for them. 
Leveraging the TCS PaceTM and TCS Accessibility Centre 
of Excellence from design to testing, Support Hub is 
instrumental in improving Experian’s user engagement. 
The Experian Support Hub allows people to share their 
support needs with multiple service providers in a simple, 
standardized way. For instance, the end customer can now 
define their needs like requesting statements in Braille or 
getting longer appointments or more support when visiting 
a branch. 
Through this unique initiative, Experian has been able to 
expand its partner ecosystem which will help them enter 
new markets and make a pivotal advancement in fostering 
financial inclusion. By 2030, Experian aims to help seven 
million consumers connect with over 200 organizations. 
TCS has been a critical partner of Experian in this initiative from 
day 1, working closely with the Support Hub team to structure 
our requirements and design an intuitive, accessible solution 
that could be deployed quickly. We’re proud of Support Hub and 
its impact in supporting vulnerable consumers, and it’s been a 
pleasure to have TCS join us on this journey.
Paul Lamont
Product Director
Experian Consumer Information Services 
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
Connecting India, Faster: BSNL 
4G/5G Network roll-out 
Post the satisfactory evaluation of the indigenous telecom 
stack, BSNL awarded TCS the mandate to supply, install and 
commission the pan India 4G/5G mobile network across 
100,000 sites. The contract involves the following key 
dimensions:
Establishing modern cloud native data centers with 
geographical redundancies for each of the four zones 
and about 30+ edge data centers closer to the clients.
In response to the Government of India’s ‘Atmanirbhar 
Bharat’ call, TCS collaborated with Centre for Development 
of Telematics (C-DOT) and Tejas Networks Limited (Tejas) to 
design and develop an indigenous telecom stack. This complex 
initiative was undertaken with significant efforts to design the 
equipment, establish a lab and testing infrastructure of scale 
besides building the entire manufacturing ecosystem in India. 
The resultant solution of EPC Core, RAN, IMS, and the cognitive 
NMS was proven by integrating it in the state-owned Bharat 
Sanchar Nigam Limited’s (BSNL) existing network through a 
well-structured proof of concept. The indigenously designed 
equipment are programmable and the overall network will be 
‘Software Defined’ and highly configurable. With this, India 
became only the fifth country in the world to have developed 
this complex technology end to end.
Deploying the EPC Core and IMS software supplied by 
C-DOT integrating it with the existing BSNL landscape 
in a high scalable cloud architecture along with TCS’ 
Cognitive Network Operations (CNOPS) to efficiently 
manage and configure the network.
Install, commission, and optimize the Radios (RAN) 
meeting the specifications of BSNL and global 
standards, supplied by Tejas.
Extend Operations and Maintenance support to the 
network on an on-going basis.
This project is governed as a ‘mission-mode’ project by TCS, 
BSNL and the Department of Telecommunications. As of 
April 2024, TCS has delivered 11,000 sites and are well on its 
way to complete the roll-out by end of this year. BSNL has 
already added to the scope another 22,000 sites to further 
densify the coverage and to include ‘saturation’ sites. This 
is to ensure digital inclusivity to rural and remote areas of 
India.
This is a historic and significant leap towards bridging the 
digital divide, ushering in the benefits of a powerful voice 
and data network to all corners of the country. With this, 
TCS along with its partners is enabling BSNL to enhance 
its competitiveness, increase revenues, offer a compelling 
enterprise proposition, and explore new business 
opportunities. 
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
What happens when two companies with a shared vision join 
forces? We have a greenfield insurance firm that is digital-first, 
always available and provides gold standard customer 
experience to its members. 
Irish bank, AIB and Great West Life Co entered a joint venture 
to transform the life, pensions, and investment market in 
Ireland. They also wanted to address the 35% gender gap in 
pensions. TCS was selected as a strategic partner for the newly 
launched AIB life in Ireland, including greenfield operations set 
up in Letterkenny. TCS helped create a modern, cloud-based 
technology stack from the ground up with its unique 
insurance-in-a-box solution. 
In Ireland, insurance offerings mainly follow a tiring process 
where the sales process can take weeks. TCS and AIB life 
re-imagined the entire journey, with a digital first ambition and 
customers at the heart of everything. 
A joint venture gives rise to a digitally powered insurance firm 
The entire system was built on a public cloud. The scalable, 
resilient, and future-ready system was up and running within 15 
months and AIB life had exceeded 5,000 new policy sales by the 
end of 2023. 
A dedicated, cloud-enabled contact center and back-office 
in Ireland supports AIB life’s operations – allowing their 
distributor to advise customers on 12 different product 
offerings. Further differentiated products are envisaged to 
enable AIB life to respond to market changes. 
TCS continues to support the firm in its mission of creating 
truly omnichannel experience, while handling 100+ policy 
activations on an average day, with self-service capabilities 
and straight through processing. 
After an 
extensive review of the 
market, it was clear that TCS’ contextual 
industry knowledge, European cloud-based technology 
and global delivery team based in Letterkenny was a great fit for 
us.  As we build and scale what is a new greenfield life company, it is key 
that we start on a foundation of cutting-edge technology, and from the outset, 
establish a digital business with a partner that shares our vision, with the capacity 
and experience to back our ambition to build our new company at pace, while being 
committed to delivering the very best for our customers. In addition, TCS’ investment in Ireland 
through their Global Delivery Centre in Letterkenny, from where we are servicing AIB life customers, enables 
us to deliver customer service excellence as we support the financial wellbeing of our customers, their 
families, and their businesses. Being able to do that from within Ireland was particularly important.
Bryan O’Connor
Chief Executive Officer
AIB life
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

AI for Business Study 
The advent of GenAI expands the arc of traditional machine 
learning and AI, which is one of recognition and reasoning 
intelligence, to create an operative intelligence that partners 
with humans to create new possibilities and new opportunities 
that have the potential to dramatically reshape business. Today’s 
AI delivers far more than just cost savings or improvements in 
productivity or quality. When combined with human creativity 
and strategic thinking, companies can continuously improve 
are excited or cautiously optimistic about 
AI’s potential impact.
think up to half their employees will be 
using GenAI daily in the near future.
want to take a strategic approach 
to AI, whether it’s an AI-first or 
business-model-first approach to 
maximize benefits to their companies. 
are already using AI in some way to 
enhance current revenue streams or to 
create entirely new revenue streams.
say human strategic decision making, 
intuition, and creativity will remain 
essential to their company’s competitive 
advantage.
are more focused on using AI to spur 
innovation than on lowering costs and 
optimization.
are reworking or planning to rework their 
company’s strategy, operating model or 
offerings to extract the most benefits 
from and to mitigate any risks of AI 
implementations.
From potential to performance by design
Survey highlights and takeaways
customer value chains through diﬀerentiation and consistent, 
high-quality organizational output designed to deliver elite 
outcomes. The recent GenAI technology revolution has taken 
the world, including business, by storm. The advent of GenAI 
tools raises the potential of “traditional AI” to a new level for TCS 
clients, especially those seeking to embrace a strategic approach 
to its adoption and integration.
To understand how companies are approaching AI in the next few years, the TCS Thought Leadership Institute surveyed nearly 
1,300 CEOs and senior executives in large cross-industry enterprises in 24 countries.
Executives weigh in about the potential impact of AI on their 
business
Many employees will come to rely on GenAI in the near future
Assessing the best approach to AI adoption
AI impact on revenue streams
AI’s impact on organizations’ competitive positioning and 
decision-making
Current focus of AI is innovation 
AI impact to strategy and operating models
57%
65%
53%
72%
45%
70%
86%
Top 3 challenges to AI adoption
Current IT infrastructure
Customers’ expectations 
Current IT service providers
AI for Business Study

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Assist
Augment
Transform
TCS Methodology for AI Adoption with a multilayered approach 
By design: Accelerating better decisions, performance, and innovation
Getting the most from AI will require a multilayered strategy that creates a foundation designed for accelerated productivity, 
innovation, and performance. This means using AI strategically to:
Where do we start? 
How do we scale? 
How do we drive organizational changes? 
How do we manage the risks? 
Machines boost human 
capabilities through knowledge 
discovery and summarization 
Start with value (the why and what); identify use cases, 
not technology. Create a blueprint in the context of the 
overall value chain. 
Design and build for constant change. Maximize 
stakeholder collaboration and an enterprise network of 
continuously evolving purposive agents. 
Create space for adaptation and establish a culture of 
innovation. Evolve talent and redefine roles on an ongoing 
basis. 
Make the model safe. Establish a governance model for 
information security, regulatory compliance, and bias 
mitigation guardrails. Monitor primary metrics/KPIs with 
stakeholders at frequent intervals.
AI can supplement tacit knowledge 
with contextual knowledge to 
boost work effectiveness.
AI can accelerate elite 
performance through 
collaborative intelligence, 
where humans and machines 
complement and magnify each 
other’s talents.
Leap from systems of record to a 
knowledge-driven superstructure 
with fast, consistent, and 
high-quality decision output to 
deliver new ways of working 
and the full realization of 
“enterprise-wise” AI.
Humans and machines 
collaborate by optimizing 
activities
Machines elevate, humans 
ideate to redefine value chains
Adapt & Grow
Govern
Secure & 
Monitor
Scale
Build
Plan & Operate
AI for Business Study

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

The team at TCS was instrumental in the revolutionary 
build and implementation of Xvantage, resulting in 
end-to-end transformation across design, architecture, 
product development, AI, and cloud platform technologies. 
By embracing a customer-centric approach and fostering 
innovation in distributed channels with optimized value 
chains, Xvantage is serving as Ingram Micro’s digital twin in 
helping their customers boost efficiency, increase revenue 
opportunities, and grow their businesses.
In partnership with TCS, Ingram Micro, an innovative, US-based 
global technology distribution company, successfully completed 
an unprecedented industry transformation to a digital 
experience company through its groundbreaking platform, 
XvantageTM. This business model transformation leverages 
proprietary AI/ML-enhanced technologies and a global, 
real-time data mesh containing many years of operational 
and transactional data to enhance operational efficiencies, 
streamline supply chain processes, and provide world-class, 
unified experiences for its customers, vendors and associates.
Disrupting Industry Boundaries from Transactions to Interactions
CUSTOMER
S T O R I E S
Embarking 
on this 
transformation 
journey has been 
incredibly exciting. With 
unparalleled dedication, the 
teams have pioneered a monumental 
shift within a short timeframe, which 
has been recognized throughout the 
industry. And with Xvantage—every day, every 
week—we’re iterating, adding new capabilities, 
further eliminating complexity for our customers. 
From building a data lake to empowering all users of the 
platform with data-driven technologies, our TCS colleagues 
have been integral to the massive strides we’ve taken together.
Sanjib Sahoo
EVP & Chief Digital Officer 
Ingram Micro 
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

AI and GenAI
S T O R I E S
The warranty claims received by a global manufacturer of 
engines and power system products, for its service network 
included a mix of structured data, narratives/ notes. The notes 
were used by experts to determine the validity and the warrantable items in a manually adjudicated claim process. In auto 
adjudicated claims, there were certain anomalous claims that 
got cleared for payment if met the criteria of a standard claim.
TCS conceptualized and implemented an Intelligent adjudication 
and anomaly detection solution that automated the review of 
all claims using Machine Learning for structured data, Natural 
Language Processing for unstructured data and a scenario-based 
modelling approach for anomalies, in combination with business 
rules to provide informed inference to adjudicators or adjust 
claims wherever apparent before further adjudication.
TCS solution provides a scalable model for all types of claims 
including traceability needed for decision support, and could 
automate 91% of claims’ approval, resulting in efficient 
utilization of adjudicator’s time and improved realization time 
for the service providers. The solution delivered an increase 
in productivity hours, an annual savings of over US$5 million 
in terms of warranty costs and identification of anomalous 
claims.
Warranty Claims Anomaly 
Detection Solution 
Travel better with a Next GenAI Solution
A leading North American airline customer wanted to drive 
operational efficiency throughout the airport operations control 
domain by enabling key stakeholders with operations information 
in real time. In addition, their objective was also to improve 
customer experience through next GenAI technologies.
For all US airlines, 116 million are the delayed minutes every 
year. With an average of 100 passengers on each flight, this 
results in 11.6 billion minutes of passenger delays and frustration. 
Travel better during delays was the core around which the airline 
customer and TCS embarked on a GenAI journey to help their 
end customers reach their destination by seamlessly capturing 
contextual data along with their preferences. TCS’ solution 
provided a conversational experience to deliver contextualized 
personalized message while apologizing for the flight delay, 
leveraging GenAI to ask about preferences including final location, 
drive time, earliest arrival, or least waiting time along with an 
end-to-end integration to provide options and rebooking for a 
seamless passenger experience.
The boarding twin continuously monitors boarding progress and 
its deviations in real time by merging camera vision data with 
enterprise events and contextualizing the user experience with 
proactive and relevant notifications on boarding progress of all 
flights.
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

AI and GenAI
S T O R I E S
TCS customer is a leading Global Insurance and Asset Management 
Provider. The customer’s contact center agents need to respond to 
user queries related to travel insurance policies’ terms & conditions 
across various states it is presently servicing. Agents had to search 
through many T&C, resulting in high wait time for the customer.
TCS designed a GenAI led solution to generate quick yet consistent 
and contextual responses for end users. The state-wise T&C and 
insurance plans were extracted and semantically chunked to 
provide context to GenAI models based on user query. Prompt 
templates were created to extract contextual information needed 
for agents to generate responses to the end user query. Guardrails 
have been implemented using responsible AI principles. Agents can 
review, validate, and fine tune responses as needed.
The solution can help reduce the average handling time by 40% 
and thereby result in an overall improvement in 
customer satisfaction.
TCS customer is a leading electricity generating and gas retailing 
company in ANZ, whose strategy is to develop new power 
generation infra and improve existing assets to drive long-term 
growth while meeting sustainability. Currently, significant fuels 
used to generate electricity are natural gas and coal and three 
gas turbines are being used to meet peak load of grid. One of 
the gas turbine compressor casing had developed crack and 
functionally failed which resulted in shut down. The customer 
wanted to avoid these unwanted shutdowns by predicting the 
survival probability for combustor casings.
TCS’ IP2TM, an intelligent power plant solution that uses AI, 
IoT, and digital twin technologies was deployed to extract 
operational life experience profile from timeseries sensors’ 
information of the gas turbine process including more than 
seven years of historical data. The solution summarizes the data 
and predicts and validates crack length based on the same for 
other gas turbines.
TCS solution has helped in ensuring that the gas turbines 
operate efficiently and in preventing costly unplanned 
maintenance and helps in reducing plant O&M costs while 
reducing carbon emissions.
Agent Assist for Travel Insurance 
Policy Servicing
Built Proactive maintenance Paradigm 
for Gas Turbine Compressor casing
Customer Stories

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Notice
Notice is hereby given that the twenty-nineth Annual General 
Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“Company” or 
“TCS”) will be held on Friday, May 31, 2024, at 3.00 p.m. (IST) 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means 
(“OAVM”) to transact the following business:
Ordinary Business
To receive, consider and adopt
 
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, 
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors 
and the Auditors thereon; and
 
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, 
together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends (including 
a special dividend) on Equity Shares and to declare a 
Final Dividend on Equity Shares for the financial year 2023-24.
To appoint a Director in place of N Chandrasekaran 
(DIN 00121863), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
Special Business
To approve existing as well as new material related party 
transactions with identified subsidiaries of Promoter 
Company and/ or their subsidiaries
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to 
time, the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other applicable 
laws/statutory provisions, if any, (including any statutory 
modification(s) or amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force), the Company’s 
Policy on Related Party Transactions, and subject to 
such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be 
necessary from time to time and basis the approval and 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board of 
Directors of the Company, the approval of the Members of 
the Company be and is hereby accorded to the Company 
to enter/continue to enter into Material Related Party 
Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) 
(whether by way of an individual transaction or transaction 
taken together or series of transactions or otherwise) 
with identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ 
or their subsidiaries, related parties falling within the 
definition of ‘Related Party’ under Section 2(76) of the Act 
and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
during financial year 2024-25 on such material terms and 
conditions as detailed in the explanatory statement to 
this Resolution and as may be mutually agreed between 
related parties and the Company, such that the maximum 
value of the Related Party Transactions with such parties, 
in aggregate, does not exceed value as specified in the 
explanatory statement to this resolution, provided that 
the said transaction(s)/Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/
Agreement(s) shall be carried out in the ordinary course of 
business and at arm’s length basis.’’ 
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as “Board” which term 
shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the 
Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted 
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers 
including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to 
take all such steps as may be required in this connection 
including finalizing and executing necessary documents, 
contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other 
documents as may be required, seeking all necessary 
approvals to give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf 
of the Company and settling all such issues, questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take 
all such decisions from powers herein conferred to, without 
being required to seek further consent or approval of the 
Members and that the Members shall be deemed to have 
given their approval thereto expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in 
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in 
this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.”

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
To approve existing as well as new material related party 
transactions with Tejas Networks Limited
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time 
to time, the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other 
applicable laws/statutory provisions, if any, (including 
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) or reenactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the 
Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions, and 
subject to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as 
may be necessary from time to time and basis the approval 
and recommendation of the Audit Committee and the 
Board of Directors of the Company, the approval of the 
Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to 
the Company to enter/continue to enter into Material 
Related Party Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/
Agreement(s) (whether by way of an individual transaction 
or transaction taken together or series of transactions or 
otherwise,) with Tejas Networks Limited, related party 
falling within the definition of ‘Related Party’ under Section 
2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, during financial year 2024-25 on such material 
terms and conditions as detailed in the explanatory 
statement to this Resolution and as may be mutually 
agreed between related party and the Company, such that 
the maximum value of the Related Party Transactions with 
such party, in aggregate, does not exceed value as detailed 
in the explanatory statement provided that the said 
Transaction(s)/Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) 
shall be carried out in the ordinary course of business and 
at arm’s length basis.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as “Board” which term 
shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the 
Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted 
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers 
including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to 
take all such steps as may be required in this connection 
including finalizing and executing necessary documents, 
contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other 
documents as may be required, seeking all necessary 
approvals to give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf 
of the Company and settling all such issues, questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take 
all such decisions from powers herein conferred to, without 
being required to seek further consent or approval of the 
Members and that the Members shall be deemed to have 
given their approval thereto expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in 
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in 
this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.”
To approve existing as well as new material related party 
transactions with Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover 
Limited and/or their identified subsidiaries
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to 
time, the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other applicable 
laws/statutory provisions, if any, (including any statutory 
modification(s) or amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force), the Company’s 
Policy on Related Party Transactions, and subject to 
such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be 
necessary from time to time and basis the approval and 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board of 
Directors of the Company, the approval of the Members of 
the Company be and is hereby accorded to the Company 
to enter/continue to enter into Material Related Party 
Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) 
(whether by way of an individual transaction or transaction 
taken together or series of transactions or otherwise) with 
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or 
their identified subsidiaries, related parties falling within 
the definition of ‘Related Party’ under Regulation 2(1)(zb) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, during financial year 
2024-25 on such material terms and conditions as detailed 
in the explanatory statement to this Resolution and as 
may be mutually agreed between related parties and the 
Company, such that the maximum value of the Related 
Party Transactions with such parties, in aggregate, does 
not exceed value as detailed in the explanatory statement 
for this resolution, provided that the said Transaction(s)/
Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) shall be carried 
out in the ordinary course of business.” 
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as “Board” which term 
shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the 
Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted 
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers 
including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to take 
all such steps as may be required in this connection including 
finalizing and executing necessary documents, contract(s), 
scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as 
may be required, seeking all necessary approvals to give 
effect to this resolution, for and on behalf of the Company 
and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts 
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions 
from powers herein conferred to, without being required to 
seek further consent or approval of the Members and that 
the Members shall be deemed to have given their approval 
thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.”

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in 
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in 
this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.”
To approve existing as well as new material related party 
transactions with Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd., 
subsidiary of the Company
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time 
to time, the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other 
applicable laws/statutory provisions, if any, (including 
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) or reenactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the 
Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions, and 
subject to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as 
may be necessary from time to time and basis the approval 
and recommendation of the Audit Committee and the 
Board of Directors of the Company, the approval of the 
Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to 
the Company to enter/continue to enter into Material 
Related Party Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/
Agreement(s) (whether by way of an individual transaction 
or transaction taken together or series of transactions 
or otherwise) with Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd., 
subsidiary of the Company, a related party falling within 
the definition of ‘Related Party’ under Section 2(76) of the 
Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
during financial year 2024-25 on such material terms and 
conditions as detailed in the explanatory statement to 
this Resolution and as may be mutually agreed between 
related party and the Company, such that the maximum 
value of the Related Party Transactions with such 
party, in aggregate, does not exceed value as detailed 
in the explanatory statement provided that the said 
transaction(s)/Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) 
shall be carried out in the ordinary course of business and 
at arm’s length basis.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as “Board” which term 
shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the 
Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted 
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers 
including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to take 
all such steps as may be required in this connection including 
finalizing and executing necessary documents, contract(s), 
scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as 
may be required, seeking all necessary approvals to give 
effect to this resolution, for and on behalf of the Company 
and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts 
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions 
from powers herein conferred to, without being required to 
seek further consent or approval of the Members and that 
the Members shall be deemed to have given their approval 
thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.”
 
“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in 
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in 
this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.”
Notes
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its 
General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and 
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, in relation to “Clarification 
on passing of ordinary and special resolutions by 
companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder on account of the threat posed by 
“COVID-19”, General Circular Nos. 20/2020 dated May 5, 
2020, 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022 and subsequent 
circulars issued in this regard, the latest being 09/2023 
dated September 25, 2023 in relation to “Clarification on 
holding of Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM)”, 
(collectively referred to as “MCA Circulars”) permitted 
the holding of the AGM through VC/OAVM, without the 
physical presence of the Members at a common venue. 
In compliance with the MCA Circulars, the AGM of the 
Company is being held through VC /OAVM. The registered 
office of the Company shall be deemed to be the venue for 
the AGM.
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting out material facts 
concerning the business under Item Nos. 4 to 7 of the 
Notice, is annexed hereto. Further, the relevant details 
with respect to Item Nos. 3 pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India, in respect of Director seeking 
re-appointment at this AGM are also annexed.
In accordance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and 
Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 
May 12, 2020, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 
January 15, 2021, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022, SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated January 5, 2023 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/
CIR/2023/167 dated October 7, 2023 issued by Securities 
Exchange Board of India (collectively referred to as 
“SEBI Circulars”), the Notice of the AGM along with the 
Integrated Annual Report for FY 2023-24 is being sent by 
electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses 
are registered with the Company/National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and the Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”), collectively “Depositories”
 
If your e-mail address is not registered with the Company/
Depositories, you may register on or before 5:00 p.m. (IST) 
on Friday, May 24, 2024, to receive this Notice of the 
AGM and the Integrated Annual Report for FY 2023-24 by 
completing the process for registration of e-mail address as 
under:

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
 
Click on the URL: https://liiplweb.linkintime.co.in/
EmailReg/Email_Register.html.
 
Select the Name of the Company from dropdown: 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited.
 
Enter DP and Client ID (if shares held in electronic 
form)/Folio number (if shares held in physical form) 
and Permanent Account Number (“PAN”). In the 
event PAN details are not registered for physical 
folio, Member to enter one of the Share Certificate 
numbers.
 
Enter Mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
System generated One Time Password (“OTP”) to be 
sent on mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
Enter OTP received on mobile number and e-mail ID.
 
Click on Submit button.
 
On completing the above process your request will 
be accepted and request ID will be generated. Email 
registered is for limited purpose of sending notice 
pertaining to the current event.
 
Members may note that the Notice and Integrated Annual 
Report 2023-24 will also be available on the Company’s 
website www.tcs.com, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively, 
and on the website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to 
attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy 
to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need 
not be a Member of the Company. Since this AGM is being 
held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC/OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxy(ies) by the 
Members will not be available for the AGM and hence the 
Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are not 
annexed to this Notice.
Institutional shareholders/corporate shareholders 
(i.e. other than individuals, HUFs, NRIs, etc.) are required to 
send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of their respective 
Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., 
authorizing their representative to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM on their behalf and to vote through 
remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall 
be sent to the Scrutinizer by e-mail on its registered e-mail 
address to tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com with a copy marked 
to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUFs, NRIs etc.) can also upload their 
Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority Letter, etc. 
by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”)
 
Pursuant to the Order passed by National Company Law 
Tribunal (NCLT) dated December 18, 2023, TSR Consultants 
Private Limited has merged with Link Intime India Private 
Limited with effect from December 22, 2023. Accordingly, 
the name of RTA of the Company is changed from 
TSR Consultants Private Limited to Link Intime India Private 
Limited (Link Intime / RTA). 
Final Dividend for FY 2023-24:
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 12, 
2024, has recommended a final dividend of `28 per equity 
share. The Record date fixed for determining entitlement 
of Members to final dividend for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024, if approved at the AGM, is Thursday, 
May 16, 2024.
 
If the final dividend is approved at the AGM, payment 
of such dividend subject to deduction of tax at source 
(“TDS”) will be made on Tuesday, June 4, 2024, as 
under:
 
 
To all Beneficial Owners in respect of shares held 
in dematerialized form as per the data as may be 
made available by the Depositories, as of close of 
business hours on Thursday, May 16, 2024.
 
 
ii. 
To all Members in respect of shares held 
in physical form after giving effect to valid 
transmission or transposition requests lodged 
with the Company as of the close of business 
hours on Thursday, May 16, 2024.
 
SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/
CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021 (subsequently 
amended by Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/687 dated December 14, 2021, 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 March 
16, 2023 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 
November 17, 2023) has mandated that with effect 
from April 1, 2024, dividend to security holders (holding 
securities in physical form), shall be paid only through 
electronic mode. Such payment shall be made only after 
furnishing the PAN, choice of nomination, contact details 
including mobile number, bank account details and 
specimen signature.
 
Further, relevant FAQs published by SEBI on its website can 
be viewed at the following link: https://www.sebi.gov.in/
sebi_data/faqfiles/jan-2024/1704433843359.pdf
TDS on dividend
 
Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is 
taxable in the hands of shareholders and the Company 
is required to deduct tax at source from dividend paid to 
shareholders at the prescribed rates. For the prescribed 
rates for various categories, please refer to Income Tax 
Act, 1961 and the Finance Act, 2020, of the respective 
years. The shareholders are requested to update their PAN 
with the Depository Participants (DPs) (if shares held in 
dematerialized form) and the Company/Link Intime India 
Private Limited (if shares are held in physical form).

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
 
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and whose 
income does not exceed maximum amount not chargeable 
to tax or who is not liable to pay income tax, as the case 
may be, can submit a yearly declaration in Form No. 
15G/15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction of tax at 
source by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2425@linkintime.co.in 
or upload the documents on https://liiplweb.linkintime.
co.in/formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.html by 11:59 
p.m. (IST) on Friday, May 10, 2024. Shareholders are 
requested to note that if the PAN is not correct/ invalid/ 
inoperative or have not filed their income tax returns, 
then tax will be deducted at higher rates prescribed 
under Sections 206AA or 206AB of the Income-tax Act, as 
applicable and incase of invalid PAN, they will not be able to 
get credit of TDS from the Income Tax Department.
 
Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign Institutional 
Investors (“FIIs”)/Foreign Portfolio Investors (“FPIs”)] 
can avail beneficial rates under tax treaty between India 
and their country of tax residence, subject to providing 
necessary documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and 
Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency Certificate, 
Form 10F, any other document which may be required 
to avail the tax treaty benefits. For this purpose, the 
shareholder may submit the above documents (PDF/JPG 
Format) by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2425@linkintime.
co.in or upload the documents on https://liiplweb.
linkintime.co.in/formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.
html. The aforesaid declarations and documents need to 
be submitted by the shareholders by 11:59 p.m. (IST) on 
Friday, May 10, 2024.
 
For further details please refer to FAQs on Taxation of 
Dividend Distribution at https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank 
account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.
 
For shares held in electronic form: to their 
Depository Participants (“DPs”)
 
For shares held in physical form: to the Company/RTA 
in prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to 
SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/SECFATF/P/
CIR/2023/169 dated October 12, 2023. To mitigate 
unintended challenges on account of freezing of folios, 
SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/
CIR/2023/181 dated November 17, 2023, has done 
away with the provision regarding freezing of folios not 
having PAN, KYC, and Nomination details. Members 
may also refer to Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) 
on Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
10. Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies 
to issue securities in dematerialized form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities 
certificate; claim from unclaimed suspense account; 
renewal/exchange of securities certificate; endorsement; 
sub-division/splitting of securities certificate; consolidation 
of securities certificates/folios; transmission and 
transposition. Accordingly, Members are requested to make 
service requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form 
ISR – 4, the format of which is available on the Company’s 
website at https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ and on the website of 
the Company’s RTA, Link Intime at https://linkintime.co.in/. 
It may be noted that any service request can be processed 
only after the folio is KYC Compliant.
11. In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended from time to time, transfer, transmission 
and transposition of securities shall be effected only in 
dematerialized form. In view of the same and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and avail various 
benefits of dematerialization, Members are advised to 
dematerialize the shares held by them in physical form. 
Members can contact the Company or Link Intime, for 
assistance in this regard.
12. Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order 
of names, in more than one folio are requested to send 
to the Company or Link Intime, the details of such folios 
together with the share certificates along with the requisite 
KYC Documents for consolidating their holdings in one folio. 
Requests for consolidation of share certificates shall be 
processed in dematerialized form.
13. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility 
for making nomination is available for the Members in 
respect of the shares held by them. Members who have 
not yet registered their nomination are requested to 
register the same by submitting Form No. SH-13. If a 
Member desires to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination 
and record a fresh nomination, he/she may submit the 
same in Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may be. The said 
forms can be downloaded from the Company’s website 
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ. Members are requested to 
submit the said details to their DP in case the shares are 
held by them in dematerialized form and to Link Intime in 
case the shares are held in physical form.
14. In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register 
of Members of the Company as on the cut-off date will be 
entitled to vote during the AGM.
15. SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, and SEBI/HO/OIAE/
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 2023, read 
with Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/145 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on August 
11, 2023), has established a common Online Dispute 
Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) for resolution of disputes 
arising in the Indian Securities Market.
 
Pursuant to above-mentioned circulars, post exhausting 
the option to resolve their grievances with the RTA/
Company directly and through existing SCORES platform, 
the investors can initiate dispute resolution through the 
ODR Portal (https://smartodr.in/login) and the same can 
also be accessed through the Company’s website 
https://on.tcs.com/ODRPortal

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
16. Members seeking any information with regard to the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM 
are requested to write to the Company on or before 
May 30, 2024, through e-mail on investor.relations@tcs.com. 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
17. Members are requested to note that dividends, if not 
encashed for a period of 7 years from the date of transfer 
to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in respect of which 
dividend has remained unclaimed for 7 consecutive years 
or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend 
account shall also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, 
Members are requested to claim their dividends from the 
Company, within the stipulated timeline. 
 
The Members whose unclaimed dividends and/or 
shares have been transferred to IEPF, may contact the 
Company or RTA and submit the required documents 
for issue of Entitlement Letter. The Members can attach 
the Entitlement Letter and other required documents 
and file the IEPF-5 form for claiming the dividend and/
or shares available on www.iepf.gov.in. For details, please 
refer to Corporate Governance Report which is a part of 
this Integrated Annual report and FAQ of investor page 
on Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ. The 
procedure for claiming the shares from IEPF Authority is 
available on https://on.tcs.com/IEPF
18. Members attending the meeting through VC/OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of determining the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Act.
19. Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM are as 
follows:
 
(A) VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS
 
 
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
as amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI 
Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated December 9, 2020 in relation to “e-voting 
Facility Provided by Listed Entities”, the Members 
are provided with the facility to cast their vote 
electronically, through the e-voting services 
provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set forth 
in this Notice. The instructions for e-voting are 
given herein below.
 
 
ii. 
The remote e-voting period commences on 
Tuesday, May 28, 2024 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends 
on Thursday, May 30, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST). During 
this period, Members holding shares either in 
physical form or in dematerialized form, as on 
Friday, May 24, 2024, i.e. cut-off date, may cast 
their vote electronically.
 
 
 
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL 
for voting thereafter. Members have the option to 
cast their vote on any of the resolutions using the 
remote e-voting facility, either during the period 
commencing from Tuesday, May 28, 2024 and 
to Thursday, May 30, 2024, or e-voting during 
the AGM. Members who have voted on some of 
the resolutions during the said voting period are 
also eligible to vote on the remaining resolutions 
during the AGM.
 
 
iii. 
The Members who have cast their vote by 
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also 
attend/participate in the AGM through VC/OAVM 
but shall not be entitled to cast their vote on such 
resolution again.
 
 
iv. 
The Board of Directors has appointed P N Parikh 
(Membership No. FCS 327) and failing him, 
Jigyasa Ved (Membership No. FCS 6488) of 
Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a 
fair and transparent manner.
 
 
The voting rights of Members shall be in 
proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off 
date.
 
 
vi. 
Any person holding shares in physical form 
and non-individual shareholders, who acquires 
shares of the Company and becomes a Member 
of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may 
obtain the User ID and Password by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com. However, if he/
she is already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-voting then he/she can use his/her existing 
User ID and Password for casting the vote. In case 
of individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode and who acquires shares 
of the Company and becomes a Member of 
the Company after sending of the Notice and 
holding shares as of the cut-off date may follow 
steps mentioned below under “Login method 
for remote e-voting and joining virtual meeting 
for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode.”
 
 
vii. The details of the process and manner for remote 
e-voting are explained herein below:
 
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system.
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below :
Login method for remote e-voting and joining the virtual 
meeting for individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialized mode
 
Pursuant to SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/ 
2020/242 dated December 9, 2020, on “e-voting facility 
provided by Listed Companies”, e-voting process has been 
enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by way 
of single login credential, through their demat accounts/
websites of Depositories/DPs to increase the efficiency of 
the voting process. Individual demat account holders would 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service provider (“ESP”) thereby not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process. Shareholders are advised to update 
their mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-voting facility.
 
Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with NSDL
 NSDL IDeAS facility 
 
If you are already registered, follow the below steps
 
Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
 
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon 
under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section. 
 
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services. 
 
Click on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services 
and you will be able to see e-voting page. 
 
Click on options available against Company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL 
and you will be re-directed to NSDL e-voting website for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
 
If you are not registered, follow the below steps
 
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
 
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://on.tcs.com/NSDLRegn. 
 
Please follow steps given above in points 1-5. 
e-voting website of NSDL
 
Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone. 
 
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which 
is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
 
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen. 
 
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you 
can see e-voting page. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting 
service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and 
e-voting during the meeting.
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized 
mode with CDSL
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any 
further authentication. The users who to login Easi/Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
use your existing my easi username & password.
After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by 
the Company. On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page 
of the e-voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period 
or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links 
provided to access the system of all e-voting service providers, so that the user can visit 
the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on 
registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN from a e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & e-mail as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-voting service providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their DPs
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. 
Once logged-in, you will be able to see the e-voting option. Once you click on 
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - NSDL 
and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
 
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password 
option available at respective websites.
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository 
i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Securities held with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com or call at +91 22 48867000
Securities held with CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800225533
II) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
 
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
 
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under “Shareholder/
Member” section.
 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
 
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID 
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your User ID 
is IN300***12******
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your User ID is 
12**************
For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company
For example if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is 001*** then User ID is 
123456001***
 
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below: 
 
 
If you are already registered for e-voting, then you can use your existing password to login and cast your vote.
 
 
If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you by NSDL. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and 
the system will force you to change your password.
 
 
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
 
 
 
(i) 
If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat account or with the Company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated 
to you on your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from NSDL in your mailbox from evoting@nsdl.com. 
Open the e-mail and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. 
 
 
 
 
The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account 
or folio number for shares held in physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’. 
 
 
 
(ii) In case you have not registered your e-mail address with the Company/Depository, please follow instructions 
mentioned below in this notice.
 
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
 
 
 Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at evoting@nsdl.com 
mentioning your demat account number/folio number, PAN, name and registered address.
 
 
Members can also use the OTP based login for casting the votes on the e-voting system of NSDL.
 
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
 
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
 
10. After you click on the “Login” button, home page of e-voting will open.
 
Details on Step 2 are given below:
 
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system?
 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies’ “EVEN” in which you are holding shares and whose 
voting cycle and general meeting is in active status.
 
Select “EVEN” of Company, which is 128475 for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-voting period and 
casting your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed under 
“Join Meeting”.
 
Now you are ready for e-voting as the voting page opens.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Further Members can also use the OTP based login for 
logging into the e-voting system of NSDL.
 
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall 
open 30 minutes before the time scheduled for the 
AGM.
 
Members who need assistance before or during the 
meeting, can contact NSDL on evoting@nsdl.com 
+91 22 48867000 or contact Amit Vishal, Deputy 
Vice President – NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com or 
Sanjeev Yadav, Assistant Manager-NSDL at 
sanjeevy@nsdl.com
 
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as a 
speaker by sending their request from their registered 
e-mail address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client 
ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile number at 
tcsagm.speakers@tcs.com from Saturday, May 25, 2024 
(9:00 a.m. IST) to Monday, May 27, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST). 
Those Members who have registered themselves as a 
speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the AGM. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on 
the availability of time for the AGM. 
 
Other Instructions
 
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion 
of voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-voting (votes cast during the AGM and 
votes cast through remote e-voting) and will submit 
a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or 
a person authorised by him in writing, who shall 
countersign the same. The results will be announced 
within the time stipulated under the applicable laws.
 
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be placed on the Company’s website 
www.tcs.com and on the website of NSDL 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately. 
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results 
to National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
By order of the Board of Directors
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
 Company Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
Membership No. ACS 7016
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Registered Office:
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021
CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781
Tel: +91 22 6778 9595
Email: investor.relations@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com
 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. 
assent or dissent, verify or modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
 
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed and you will receive 
a confirmation by way of a SMS on your registered 
mobile number. 
 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation 
page.
 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
 
General Guidelines for shareholders
 
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five 
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. 
In such an event, you will need to go through the 
“Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User 
Reset Password?” option available on https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
 
In case of any queries related to e-voting, you may 
refer the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) 
for Shareholders and e-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 
+91 22 48867000 or send the request to Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com
 
Members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com 
for procuring User ID and password for e-voting by 
providing demat account number / Folio number, 
client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card), AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy of 
Aadhaar Card). If you are an Individual shareholder 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested 
to refer to the login method explained above.
 
The instructions for members for e-voting on the day 
of the AGM are mentioned in point number 19(A).
(B) INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM 
THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER
 
Members will be able to attend the AGM through VC/
OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided by 
NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com following the 
steps mentioned above for login to NSDL e-voting 
system. After successful login, you can see VC/OAVM 
link placed under Join meeting menu against company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link 
placed under “Join Meeting” menu.
 
 
Members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and 
Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the Notice. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Explanatory Statement
As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the following explanatory statement sets out all material facts relating 
to the business mentioned under Item No. 4 to 7 of the accompanying Notice:
Item No. 4 to 7
Pursuant to the amended Regulation 23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the threshold limit for determination of material Related Party Transactions is the lower of ₹1,000 crores 
(Rupees One thousand crores) or 10% (ten percent) of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited 
financial statements of the listed entity and such material related party transactions exceeding the limits, would require prior approval 
of Members by means of an ordinary resolution.
TCS, being a globally recognised provider of IT services, participates in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and 
partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering such services, the Company also 
leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the “Tata Group”. The transactions that the Company has had with 
its related parties for the last three years are given below:
Year ended March 31, 2024 
(` crore)
Transactions
Promoter 
Company
Subsidiaries 
of Promoter 
Company
Associates/joint 
ventures of Promoter 
Company and their 
subsidiaries
Other than wholly 
owned subsidiaries 
of the Company
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

1,006
3,875
1,155
6,086
Other income

Procurement of goods and 
services

1,452

1,862
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

Year ended March 31, 2023 
(` crore)
Transactions
Promoter 
Company
Subsidiaries 
of Promoter 
Company
Associates/joint 
ventures of Promoter 
Company and their 
subsidiaries
Other than wholly 
owned subsidiaries 
of the Company
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

1,152
2,506
1,063
4,759
Other income
Procurement of goods and 
services

1,000
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

Year ended March 31, 2022 
(` crore)
Transactions
Promoter 
Company
Subsidiaries 
of Promoter 
Company
Associates/joint 
ventures of Promoter 
Company and their 
subsidiaries
Other than wholly 
owned subsidiaries 
of the Company
Total
IT/ITE services rendered

2,233
1,164
4,207
Other income

Procurement of goods and 
services

1,200
Brand equity contribution


Non IT/ITE services availed

Lease rental

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Based on current applicable threshold for determining the related party transactions that require prior Shareholders approval 
and to facilitate seamless contracting and rendering/availing of product and services between the Company and “related parties”, 
the Company seeks the approval of the shareholders to approve entering into contracts/arrangements within the thresholds and 
conditions mentioned in the resolutions. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and 
approved by the Audit Committee. Further, the transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are reviewed by our statutory 
auditors for being at arm’s length.
Information required to be disclosed in the Explanatory Statement for Item Nos. 4 to 7 pursuant to the SEBI Master Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2021/662 dated 
November 22, 2021, are as follows:
Item No. 4 
Material Related Party Transactions with Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries 
(Please refer Annexure B (i) for the list)
Nature of relationship [including nature of 
its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and/ or their subsidiaries, which are 
covered under Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and 
such related areas
(b) Supply of hardware and software
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc. 
(e) Leasing of property 
(f) Any transfer of resources, services, or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, 
monetary value and particulars of contract/
arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years, shall be subject to a maximum 1.2 percent 
with a single related party per annum and a cumulative threshold of 4.2 percent 
across all related parties per annum, of the consolidated turnover of the Company 
for FY2023-24.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration up to 5 years
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the immediately 
preceding financial year, that is 
represented by the value of the proposed 
transaction
Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years, shall be subject to a maximum 1.2 percent 
with a single related party per annum and a cumulative threshold of 4.2 percent 
across all related parties per annum, of the consolidated turnover of the Company 
for FY2023-24.
Justification of the proposed transaction
The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in 
the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective 
entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering 
such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources 
of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level 
of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities 
within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
10.
Details of the valuation report or external 
party report (if any) enclosed with the 
Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, N G Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
S/N
Description 
Particulars
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investment made or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest rate 
and repayment schedule, whether secured 
or unsecured; if secured, the nature of 
security)
Not Applicable
the purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such 
funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice.
Item No. 5
Material Related Party transactions with Tejas Networks Limited
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Tejas Networks Limited
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Tejas Networks Limited is a subsidiary of the Promoter Company and hence 
related party under Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and 
such related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software 
(c) Reimbursement of expenses 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Leasing of property 
(f) Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, 
monetary value and particulars of 
contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that are 
generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company is operating in. 
Monetary value of transactions subject to a maximum of ₹15,000 crore through 
contracts/arrangements for a duration upto 12 years with effect from FY 2023-24.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contractual commitments expected for a tenure of 12 years
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4.
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the 
immediately preceding financial year, 
that is represented by the value of the 
proposed transaction.
Value of the proposed transaction represents 6.2 percent of the consolidated 
turnover of the Company for FY 2023-24.
Justification of the proposed transaction The domain expertise and competencies available within the group and the 
collaboration with the Company will help in delivering world class technology to 
one of the high-priority and prestigious projects of the Government of India and 
further establish Tata Group’s commitment to attain Aatmanirbhar Bharat.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
S/N
Description 
Particulars
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N G Subramaniam
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or 
given
Source of funds 
Please refer S/N 12 C below
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Unsecured Interest-free mobilization advance to be given to facilitate execution of 
contract. Adjustment of advance/s against progressive delivery of milestones, on 
the same terms as committed by the Company to end-customer.
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
As provided in S/N 12 C
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
Item No. 6
Material Related Party transactions with Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their identified subsidiaries 
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their identified subsidiaries
(Please refer to Annexure B (ii) for the list)
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Tata Motors Limited is an associate of the Promoter Company. Jaguar Land Rover 
Limited is a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited and hence related party as per SEBI 
Listing regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and 
Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such 
related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates in. 
Monetary value of transactions upto approx. ₹4,500 crore per annum.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto five years, extendable by another 
five years.
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the 
immediately preceding financial year, 
that is represented by the value of the 
proposed transaction.
Maximum up to 1.9 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for 
FY 2023-24, per annum for duration of contract
Justification of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in 
the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective 
entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering 
such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources 
of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level 
of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities 
within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
Company’s governance policies with respect to negotiation with third parties 
are followed for all contracts/arrangements with related party as defined under 
SEBI Listing Regulations. These contracts/arrangements are approved by the Audit 
Committee on quarterly basis.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
N Chandrasekaran, Hanne Sorensen, O P Bhatt and Al-Noor Ramji
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice
Item No. 7
Material Related Party Transactions with Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd., subsidiary of the Company
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Name of the related party 
Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
Nature of relationship [including nature 
of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
Subsidiary of the Company which is covered under Section 2(76) of the Act and 
Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations
Type of the proposed transaction
(a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital 
Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such 
related areas 
(b) Supply of hardware and software 
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services 
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Leasing of property 
(f) Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/
requirements

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
S/N
Description 
Particulars
Nature, duration/tenure, material 
terms, monetary value and particulars 
of contract/arrangement
Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that 
are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the company operates 
in. Monetary value of transactions through contracts/arrangements which are 
entered for a duration up to 5 years or more, shall be subject to a maximum of 1 
percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for FY 2023-24, per annum.
Particulars of the proposed transaction
As provided in S/N 3
Tenure of the transaction
Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years or more
Value of the proposed transaction 
As provided in S/N 4
Percentage of the Company’s annual 
consolidated turnover, for the 
immediately preceding financial year, 
that is represented by the value of the 
proposed transaction. 
(and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, 
such percentage calculated on the basis 
of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on 
a standalone basis shall be additionally 
provided)
1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company for FY 2023-24, subject to 
50 percent of the turnover of Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
Justification of the proposed transaction As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in 
respective countries enters into the contracts from customers and outsource the 
service delivery to the parent company TCS Limited. Solutions framework along 
with trained domain experts of TCS Limited ensure delivery of high quality and 
certainty to end-customers at respective countries.
10.
Details of the valuation report or 
external party report (if any) enclosed 
with the Notice 
All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are 
reviewed for arm’s length testing by Statutory Auditors.
11.
Name of the Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel, who is related
K Krithivasan
12.
Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given
Source of funds 
Not Applicable
In case any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
intercorporate deposits, advances or 
investment:
Nature of indebtedness;
cost of funds; and 
tenure of the indebtedness
Not Applicable
Terms of the loan, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investment made 
or given 
(including covenants, tenure, interest 
rate and repayment schedule, whether 
secured or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security)
Not Applicable
The purpose for which the funds will be 
utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of 
such funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
13.
Any other relevant information
All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, 
pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice.
 
Shareholders’ approval sought for the material Related Party Transactions entered during FY 2024-25 as given in Item Nos. 4 to 7, 
shall be valid up to the date of next AGM.
 
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their respective relatives, other than as mentioned above, 
are concerned or interested in the respective resolutions.
 
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s) have been recommended by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of 
the Company for consideration and approval by the Members.
 
The members may note that as per the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all related parties (whether such related party is 
a party to the above-mentioned transactions or not), shall not vote to approve the resolutions set out at Item Nos. 4 to 7. 
 
In view of the above, Resolution Nos. 4 to 7 are placed for approval of the Members of the Company.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Annexure A
Details of Director seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting
(In pursuance of Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings)
Name of the Director
N Chandrasekaran
Director Identification Number (DIN) 
00121863
Designation and Category of Director
Chairman 
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of birth and age
June 2, 1963 (60 years)
Date of appointment
Appointed as Member of the Board on September 6, 2007 
Appointed as Chairman on February 21, 2017
Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Science
Master’s Degree in Computer Applications
Brief profile
N Chandrasekaran serves as Chairman of the board of Tata Sons, the holding 
company and promoter of more than 100 Tata operating companies with 
aggregate annual revenues of more than US $150 billion. He joined the board of 
Tata Sons in October 2016 and was appointed Chairman in January 2017.
His appointment as Chairman of Tata Sons followed a 30-year career at TCS. 
N Chandrasekaran rose through the ranks to become the CEO and under his 
leadership, TCS consolidated its position as the largest private sector employer in 
India and India’s most valuable Company.
Since he has taken over as Chairman of Tata Sons, N Chandrasekaran has been 
driving transformation of the group towards digital, sustainability and supply 
chain resilience. The group has forayed into new businesses including electronics 
manufacturing, semiconductor, EV battery manufacturing, consumer internet 
platform, and mobile technology for 5G. The Tata group has expanded its 
aviation presence with the acquisition of Air India and is building a large 
global airline. 
N Chandrasekaran was conferred with the Padma Bhushan, one of the highest 
civilian awards in India, in the field of trade and industry in 2022. The French 
Government conferred him with Légion d’Honneur, the highest civilian award 
in France for his outstanding business successes and decisive contribution to 
strengthening Indo-French economic ties. President Eisenhower Global Award 
for Leadership by the Business Council for International Understanding (BCIU) 
was conferred to him in 2022. 
N Chandrasekaran is the Co-Chair of the US India CEO Forum. He is on the Board 
of Governors of New York Academy of Sciences, elected as an international 
member of the United States National Academy of Engineering (NAE), a 
member of the UTokyo Global Navigation Board, the Mitsubishi’s International 
Advisory Committee and International Advisory Council of Singapore’s Economic 
Development Board. He is the Chairman of Indian Institute of Management, 
Lucknow as well as the President of the Court at Indian Institute of Science, 
Bengaluru. N Chandrasekaran is also a member of the Stanford Doer School for 
Sustainability Advisory Council and the MIT CEO Advisory Board. 
N Chandrasekaran is also the author of Bridgital Nation, a groundbreaking book 
on harnessing technological disruptions to bring Indians closer to their dreams.
Expertise in specific functional areas
Rich experience in various areas of business, technology, operations, societal and 
governance matters
Terms and conditions of re-appointment 
Re-appointment in terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
Directorships held in other companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies)
Tata Sons Private Limited (Promoter Company)
Tata Steel Limited
Tata Motors Limited
The Tata Power Company Limited
Tata Chemicals Limited
Tata Consumers Products Limited
TCS Foundation
The Indian Hotels Company Limited
Tata Digital Private Limited
Air India Limited
Indian Foundation for Quality Management 
Tata Electronics Private Limited
Agratas Energy Storage Solutions Private Limited
Listed Entities from which he has resigned as 
Director in past 3 years
None
Memberships/Chairmanships of committees of 
other companies
Tata Sons Private Limited
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
CSR & ESG Committee*
Risk Management Committee*
Tata Steel Limited 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Executive Committee of the Board*
Tata Motors Limited
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Indian Hotels Company Limited
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
Tata Consumer Products Limited 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Tata Power Company Limited 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Executive Committee of the Board*
Air India Limited 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable Development Committee*
Number of Equity Shares held in the Company
1,77,056
*Chairman
For other details such as number of meetings of the Board attended during the FY 2023-24, remuneration last drawn and relationship 
with other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, in respect of the above Director, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report 
which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
(i) 
List of identified subsidiaries of Promoter Company and 
their subsidiaries as on March 31, 2024
S/N
Name 

AI Fleet Services IFSC Limited

Air India Express Limited

Air India Limited

AIX Connect Private Limited

Apex Realty Private Limited

Ardent Properties Private Limited

Arrow Infraestate Pvt Limited

Artson Engineering Limited (AEL)

BUC Mobile Inc

Campaign Registry Inc

Campaign Registry Inc (Canada)

Concept Developers & Leasing Limited

Dailyninja Delivery Services Private Limited

Delyver Retail Network Private Limited

Dharamshala Ropeway Limited

Durg Shivnath Expressways Private Limited

Gurgaon Constructwell Private Limited

Gurgaon Realtech Limited

Hampi Expressways Private Limited

HL Promoters Private Limited

HLT Residency Private Limited

Ind Project Engineering (Shanghai) Co Ltd

Industrial Minerals and Chemicals Company Private 
Limited

Industrial Quality Services, LLC Oman

Infiniti Retail Limited

Infopark Properties Limited

Innovative Retail Concepts Private Limited

International Infrabuild Private Limited

ITXC IP Holdings S.A.R.L.

Kaleyra Africa Limited

Kaleyra Dominicana

Kaleyra Inc

Kaleyra SPA 

Kaleyra UK Limited

Kaleyra US Inc.

Kolkata-One Excelton Private Limited

Kriday Realty Private Limited

Land kart Builders Private Limited

LFS Healthcare Private Limited

Matheran Rope-Way Private Limited

Mgage Athens PC

Mgage SA de CV

Mikado Realtors Private Limited

MuCoso B.V.

NetFoundry Inc.

NOVAMESH LIMITED

Oasis Smart E-Sim Pte Ltd

OASIS Smart SIM Europe SAS

One Bangalore Luxury Projects LLP

One-Colombo Project (Private) Limited

Princeton Infrastructure Private Limited

Promont Hillside Private Limited

Promont Hilltop Private Limited

Protraviny Private Limited

Pune IT City Metro Rail Limited
S/N
Name 

SAS Realtech Private Limited

Savis Retail Private Limited

Sector 113 Gatevida Developers Private Limited

SEPCO Communications (Pty) Limited

Smart Value Homes (Boisar) Private Limited

Smart Value Homes (New Project) LLP

Smart Value Homes (Peenya Project) Private Limited

Sohna City LLP

SOLUTIONS INFINI TECHNOLOGIES(INDIA) PRIVATE 
LIMITED

Solutions Infiny FZ LLC

Supermarket Grocery Supplies Private Limited

Synergizers Sustainable Foundation

Tata 1mg Healthcare Solutions Private Limited

Tata 1mg Technologies Private Limited

Tata Capital Advisors Pte. Limited

Tata Capital General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Growth Fund I

Tata Capital Growth Fund II

Tata Capital Growth II General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund I

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund II

Tata Capital Healthcare General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Healthcare II General Partners LLP

Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited

Tata Capital Innovations Fund

Tata Capital Limited

Tata Capital Plc

Tata Capital Pte. Limited

Tata Capital Special Situation Fund

Tata Communications (America) Inc.

Tata Communications (Australia) Pty Limited

Tata Communications (Beijing) Technology Limited

TATA COMMUNICATIONS (BELGIUM) SRL

Tata Communications (Brazil) Participacoes Limitada

Tata Communications (Canada) Limited

Tata Communications (France) SAS

Tata Communications (Guam) L.L.C.

Tata Communications (Hong Kong) Limited

Tata Communications (Hungary) KFT

Tata Communications (International) Pte Limited

Tata Communications (Ireland) DAC

Tata Communications (Italy) SRL

Tata Communications (Japan) KK.

Tata Communications (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Tata Communications (Middle East) FZ-LLC

Tata Communications (Netherlands) B.V.

Tata Communications (New Zealand) Limited

Tata Communications (Nordic) AS

Tata Communications (Poland) SP.Z.O.O.

Tata Communications (Portugal) Instalacao E Manutencao 
De Redes LDA

Tata Communications (Portugal) Unipessoal LDA

Tata Communications (Russia) LLC

Tata Communications (South Korea) Limited

Tata Communications (Spain) S.L.

Tata Communications (Sweden) AB

Tata Communications (Switzerland) GmbH

Tata Communications (Taiwan) Limited

Tata Communications (Thailand) Limited
Annexure B

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Notice
S/N
Name 

Tata Communications (UK) Limited

Tata Communications Collaboration Services Private 
Limited

Tata Communications Comunicacoes E Multimídia (Brazil) 
Limitada

Tata Communications Deutschland GMBH

Tata Communications Lanka Limited

Tata Communications Limited

Tata Communications MOVE B.V.

Tata Communications MOVE Nederland B.V.

Tata Communications Payment Solutions Limited

Tata Communications Services (International) Pte. Limited

Tata Communications SVCS Pte Ltd

Tata Communications Transformation Services (Hungary) 
Kft.

Tata Communications Transformation Services (US) Inc

Tata Communications Transformation Services Limited

Tata Communications Transformation Services Pte Limited

Tata Communications Transformation Services South 
Africa (Pty) Ltd

Tata Digital Private Limited

Tata Fintech Private Limited

Tata Housing Development Company Limited

Tata Neu Private Limited

Tata Opportunities General Partners LLP

Tata Payments Limited

Tata Projects Limited

Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited 

Tata Securities Limited

Tata Unistore Limited

Tata Value Homes Limited

TC MIDDLE EAST TECHNOLOGY SERVICES L.L.C 

TC Networks Switzerland SA

TCC Construction Private Limited

TCL Employee Welfare Trust

TCPOP Communication GmbH

TCTS Senegal Limited

Technopolis Knowledge Park Limited

THDC Management Services Limited
S/N
Name 

THE SWITCH ENTERPRISES, LLC

TP Luminaire Private Limited

TPL Services Private Limited

TPL-Asara Engineering South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

TPL-CIL Construction LLP

TQ Cert Services Private Limited

TQ Services Europe GmbH

TRIL Bengaluru Consultants Private Limited

TRIL BENGALURU REAL ESTATE FIVE LIMITED

TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate One Private Limited

TRIL BENGALURU REAL ESTATE SIX LIMITED

TRIL IT4 Private Limited

TRIL REAL ESTATE BALEWADI LIMITED

TRIL Roads Private Limited

TRIL Urban Transport Private Limited

Uchit Expressways Private Limited

Ujjwal Pune Limited

VSNL SNOSPV Pte. Limited

World-One (Sri Lanka) Projects Pte. Limited

World-One Development Company Pte. Limited
(ii) List of subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited and Jaguar 
Land Rover Limited as on March 31, 2024
S/N
Name

Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited

Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC

Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o 

Tata Motors Body Solutions Limited

Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services 
Limited

Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Limited

Tata Passenger Electric Mobility Limited

Tata Technologies Europe Limited 

Tata Technologies Inc.

TMF Business Services Limited 
(formerly Tata Motors Finance Limited )

TML Business Services Limited

TML Smart City Mobility Solutions Ltd

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
Directors’ Report
To the Members,
The Directors present this Integrated Annual Report of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company” or “TCS”) 
along with the audited financial statements for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024. 
The consolidated performance of the Company and its 
subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required. 
Financial results
(` crore)
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial Year 
2023-24 
(FY 2024)
Financial Year 
2022-23 
(FY 2023)
Financial Year 
2023-24 
(FY 2024)
Financial Year 
2022-23 
(FY 2023)
Revenue from operations
2,02,359
1,90,354
2,40,893
2,25,458
Other income
7,273
5,328
4,422
3,449
Total income
2,09,632
1,95,682
2,45,315
2,28,907
Expenses
Operating expenditure
1,46,512
1,39,357
1,76,597
1,66,199
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,887
3,940
4,985
5,022
Total expenses
1,50,399
1,43,297
1,81,582
1,71,221
Profit before finance costs, exceptional item and tax
59,233
52,385
63,733
57,686
Finance costs

Profit before exceptional item and tax
58,560
51,690
62,955
56,907
Exceptional item
Settlement of legal claim

Profit before tax
57,602
51,690
61,997
56,907
Tax expense
14,043
12,584
15,898
14,604
Profit for the year
43,559
39,106
46,099
42,303
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
43,559
39,106
45,908
42,147
Non-controlling interests

Opening balance of retained earnings
62,228
68,949
74,722
78,158
Closing balance of retained earnings
55,173
62,228
70,033
74,722
Return of surplus funds to Shareholders
 
In line with the practice of returning substantial free 
cash flow to shareholders and based on the Company’s 
performance, the Directors have declared three interim 
dividends of ₹9 per equity share and a special dividend 
of ₹18 aggregating to ₹45 per equity share involving 
a cash outflow of ₹16,355 crore during the year. The 
Directors have also recommended a final dividend of ₹28 
per equity share. The final dividend on equity shares, if 
approved by the Members, would involve a cash outflow 
of ₹10,131 crore. The total dividend for FY 2024 amounts 
to ₹73 per equity share and would involve a total cash 
outflow of ₹26,486 crore, resulting in a dividend payout of 
60.8 percent of the standalone profits of the Company.
 
In addition to the above, the Company bought back 
4,09,63,855 equity shares at a price of ₹4,150 per equity share 
for an aggregate consideration of ₹17,000 crore. The offer 
size of the Buyback was 24.5% and 20.5% of the aggregate 
fully paid-up share capital and free reserves as per audited 
condensed standalone interim financial statements and 
audited condensed consolidated interim financial statements 
of the Company as on September 30, 2023, respectively. 
 The Buyback represented 1.1% of the total issued and paidup Equity Share capital of the Company, as on September 
30, 2023. The settlement of bids and payment of buyback 
consideration was made on December 12, 2023 and the 
shares were extinguished on December 13, 2023. 
 
The Shareholders’ payout with respect to dividend and 
buyback including tax on buyback (excluding transaction 
costs, other incidental and related expenses) aggregated to 
₹47,445 crore, resulting in a payout of 108.9 percent of the 
standalone profits of the Company.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 
In FY 2023, the Company paid a total dividend of ₹115 per 
equity share, including a special dividend of ₹67 per equity 
share, which resulted in an outflow of ₹42,079 crore and a 
dividend payout of 107.6 percent of the standalone profits 
of the Company. 
 
The Dividend Distribution Policy, in terms of Regulation 
43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available on the 
Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/Dividend.
3. Transfer to reserves
 
The closing balance of the retained earnings of the 
Company for FY 2024, after all appropriation and 
adjustments was `55,173 crore.
Company’s performance
 
On a consolidated basis, the revenue for FY 2024 was 
₹2,40,893 crore, higher by 6.8 percent over the previous 
year’s revenue of ₹2,25,458 crore. The profit after tax (PAT) 
attributable to shareholders and non-controlling interests 
for FY 2024 and FY 2023 was ₹46,099 crore and ₹42,303 
crore, respectively.
 
The PAT attributable to shareholders for FY 2024 was 
₹45,908 crore registering a growth of 8.9 percent over the 
PAT of ₹42,147 crore in FY 2023.
 
On a standalone basis, the revenue for FY 2024 was 
₹2,02,359 crore, higher by 6.3 percent over the previous 
year’s revenue of ₹1,90,354 crore in FY 2023. The PAT 
attributable to shareholders in FY 2024 was ₹43,559 
crore registering a growth of 11.4 percent over the PAT of 
₹39,106 crore in FY 2023.
Quality initiatives
 
The Company continues to strengthen its commitment to 
the highest levels of quality, superior customer experience, 
best-in-class service management, robust information 
security and privacy practices and mature business 
continuity management.
 The TCS Integrated Quality Management System (iQMS) 
is a structured framework to ensure consistent delivery 
of products and services to meet or exceed customer 
requirements and achieve operational efficiency. 
iQMS is continually evaluated and upgraded to keep pace 
with the external environment and emerging technologies, 
such as AI and Cloud, to deliver with certainty and provide 
outstanding value and experience to its customers.
 TCS has once again successfully achieved Maturity level 5 
of ISACA’s Capability Maturity Model Integration - Services 
(CMMI-SVC® V2), a worldwide recognized industry 
benchmark and performance improvement model. 
TCS continues to maintain enterprise-wide certification to 
the following globally recognized standards: ISO 9001:2015 
(Quality Management), ISO 20000-1:2018 (IT Service 
Management), ISO 22301:2019 (Business Continuity 
Management), ISO 27001:2022 (Information Security 
Management), ISO 27017:2015 (Information Security 
Controls for Cloud Services), ISO 27018:2019 (Protection 
of PII in Public Clouds as PII Processors), ISO 27701:2019 
(Privacy Information Management Systems). The Company 
also continues to maintain certification to health, safety and 
environment standards such as ISO 14001 (Environment 
management), ISO 45001 (Health and safety), ISO 50001 
(energy management) as well as industry domain specific 
standards such as AS9100 (Aerospace), TL9000 (Telecom) 
and ISO 13485 (Medical devices).
 
The customer-centricity, focus on their transformation, 
rigor in operations and commitment to delivery excellence 
have resulted in sustained high customer satisfaction 
levels in the periodic surveys conducted by the Company. 
This is validated by top rankings in third party surveys as 
well. TCS achieved the top position in Whitelane customer 
satisfaction survey for the eleventh consecutive year, with 
an overall satisfaction score of 82 percent, 7 percentage 
points above the industry average.
 
TCS has received multiple external awards this year, a few 
of which are mentioned here.
 
The Data Security Council of India (DSCI) Excellence 
Award 2023 in category Best Privacy Practices by Data 
Processors; 
 
PICCASO Privacy Awards Europe 2023 for International 
Privacy Protection;
 
Best DevOps Cloud Project in DevOps Awards 2023, 
UK;
 
Multiple awards won in Corporate Excellence Awards 
(CEA) 2024 conducted by Symbiosis Centre for 
Management and Human Resource Development 
(SCMHRD), Pune;
 
Multiple awards won in Lean Six Sigma Case Study 
Presentation Contest 2023 from National Institution 
for Quality & Reliability (NIQR) Bangalore;
 
Platinum and Gold Recognition won in the 
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National Six 
Sigma Competition 2023;
 
TCS was honoured with the award for the Company 
with Significant Engagement in Improvement 
Interventions at the Tata Business Excellence 
Convention (BEC) for the fifth consecutive year. 
Subsidiary companies
 
On March 31, 2024, the Company has 51 subsidiaries and 
there has been no material change in the nature of the 
business of the subsidiaries. There are no associates or 
joint venture companies within the meaning of Section 2(6) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
 
The name of Tata Consultancy Services Technology 
Solutions AG was changed to Tata Consultancy Services 
Technology Solutions GmbH w.e.f April 13, 2023. 
 
W.e.f August 29, 2023, Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V., was 
merged with Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV, a 
100 percent subsidiary of the Company. 
 
Diligenta Limited, a 100 percent subsidiary of the Company, 
incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Diligenta (Europe) 
B.V. in Netherlands on September 14, 2023.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, 
a statement containing the salient features of financial 
statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in 
Form No. AOC-1 is attached to the financial statements of 
the Company.
 
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the financial statements of the Company, consolidated 
financial statements along with relevant documents 
and separate audited financial statements in respect of 
subsidiaries, are available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations. 
Directors’ responsibility statement
 
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of its knowledge and ability, 
confirm that:
 
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures;
 
ii. 
They have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the financial year and of the 
profit of the Company for that period;
 
iii. 
They have taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
 
iv. 
They have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
 
They have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively;
 
vi. 
They have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
 
Based on the framework of internal financial controls 
and compliance systems established and maintained 
by the Company, the work performed by the internal, 
statutory and secretarial auditors and external consultants, 
including the audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting by the statutory auditors and the 
reviews performed by management and the relevant board 
committees, including the audit committee, the Board is of 
the opinion that the Company’s internal financial controls 
were adequate and effective during FY 2024.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
 
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has nine Directors 
with an optimum combination of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors including two women directors. 
The Board comprises of seven Non-Executive Directors, out 
of which five are Independent Directors. 
 
During the year, the Members approved the following 
appointment and re-appointment of Directors: 
 
appointment of K Krithivasan (DIN 10106739) 
as the CEO & MD of the Company with effect from 
June 1, 2023.
 
re-appointment of Hanne Sorensen (DIN 08035439) 
and Keki Mistry (DIN 00008886) as Independent 
Directors for a second consecutive term of five years 
from December 18, 2023 upto December 17, 2028.
 
appointment of Al-Noor Ramji (DIN 00230865) as an 
Independent Director for a term of five years from 
October 12, 2023 to October 11, 2028.
 
In the opinion of Board, Hanne Sorensen, Keki Mistry and 
Al-Noor Ramji are persons of integrity and fulfils requisite 
conditions as per applicable laws and are independent of 
the management of the Company.
 
During the year, Don Callahan (DIN 08326836) ceased to 
be Director of the Company with effect from January 10, 
2024, upon completion of his term as an Independent 
Director. The Board places on record its appreciation for his 
invaluable contribution and guidance.
 
On April 16, 2022, the Members approved the 
re-appointment of N G Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) as 
the COO & ED of the Company for a further period from 
February 21, 2022 to May 19, 2024, as per the retirement 
age policy for Directors of the Company and will hold office 
till such date. O P Bhatt (DIN 00548091) was re-appointed 
as an Independent Director at the twenty-fourth Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Company held on June 13, 
2019, for a second term of five years and will hold office till 
June 26, 2024. The Board places on record its appreciation 
for their invaluable contribution and guidance.
 
N Chandrasekaran (DIN 00121863) retires by rotation 
and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
A resolution seeking Shareholders’ approval for his 
re-appointment along with other required details forms 
part of the Notice. 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, 
the Independent Directors have submitted declarations 
that each of them meets the criteria of independence 
as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules 
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. There has been no change in the 
circumstances affecting their status as independent 
directors of the Company.
 
During the year under review, the non-executive directors 
of the Company had no pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees, 
commission and reimbursement of expenses, if any.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, 
K Krithivasan, CEO & MD, N G Subramaniam, COO & ED, 
Samir Seksaria, Chief Financial Officer and 
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary are the 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 
March 31, 2024.
Number of meetings of the Board
 
Five meetings of the Board were held during the year. 
For details of meetings of the Board, please refer to the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.
10. Board evaluation1
 
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation 
of its own performance, board committees, and individual 
directors pursuant to the provisions of the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
 
The performance of the board was evaluated by the Board 
after seeking inputs from all the directors on the basis 
of criteria such as the board composition and structure, 
effectiveness of board processes, information and 
functioning, etc.
 
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the 
Board after seeking inputs from the committee members 
on the basis of criteria such as the composition of 
committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
 
The above criteria are broadly based on the Guidance Note 
on Board Evaluation issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India on January 5, 2017. In a separate meeting of 
Independent Directors, performance of Non-Independent 
directors, the Board as a whole and Chairman of the 
Company was evaluated, taking into account the views of 
executive directors and non-executive directors.
 
The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the performance of individual 
directors on the basis of criteria such as the contribution 
of the individual director to the board and committee 
meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, 
meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs in 
meetings, etc.
 
At the board meeting that followed the meeting of the 
independent directors and meeting of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the performance of the Board, 
its Committees, and individual directors was also discussed. 
Performance evaluation of independent directors was done 
by the entire Board, excluding the independent director 
being evaluated.
11. Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and 
other details
 
The Company’s policy on appointment of directors is 
available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.
 
The policy on remuneration and other matters provided 
in Section 178(3) of the Act has been disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report 
and is also available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
12. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
 
TCS’ CSR initiatives and activities are aligned to the 
requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
 
A brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company and the 
initiatives undertaken by the Company on CSR activities 
during the year are set out in Annexure I of this report in 
the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on 
the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSRPolicy
 
For other details regarding the CSR Committee, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report. 
13. Internal financial control systems and their adequacy
 
The details in respect of internal financial control and their 
adequacy are included in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which is a part of this report.
14. Audit committee
 
The details pertaining to the composition of the Audit 
Committee are included in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which is a part of this report.
15. Auditors
 
At the twenty-seventh AGM held on June 9, 2022, the 
Members approved the re-appointment of 
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No.101248W/W-100022) as Statutory Auditors of the 
Company to hold office for a period of five years from the 
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the 
thirty-second AGM to be held in the year 2027.
16. Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report
 
The statutory auditor’s report and the secretarial auditor’s 
report do not contain any qualifications, reservations, or 
adverse remarks or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report is 
attached to this report as Annexure II.
17. Risk management
 
The Board of Directors of the Company has a Risk 
Management Committee to frame, implement and monitor 
the risk management plan for the Company.
 
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
the risk management plan and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee has additional oversight in the area 
of financial risks and controls. The major risks identified by 
the businesses and functions are systematically addressed 
through mitigating actions on a continuing basis. 
 
The development and implementation of risk management 
policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which forms part of this report.
18. Vigil Mechanism
 
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy and has 
established the necessary vigil mechanism for directors 
and employees in conformation with Section 177(9) of the 
Act and Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, to report 

GRI 2-18

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
concerns about unethical behaviour. This Policy is available 
on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP.
19. Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments
 
The particulars of loans, guarantees and investments as 
per Section 186 of the Act by the Company, have been 
disclosed in the financial statements.
20. Transactions with related parties
 
None of the transactions with related parties fall under 
the scope of Section 188(1) of the Act. Accordingly, the 
disclosure of related party transactions as required under 
Section 134(3)(h) of the Act in Form AOC-2 is not applicable 
to the Company for FY 2024 and hence does not form part 
of this report.
 
Pursuant to SEBI Listing Regulations, the resolution for 
seeking approval of the Shareholders on material related 
party transactions is being placed at the AGM.
21. Annual Return
 
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)(a) 
of the Act, the Annual Return as on March 31, 2024 
is available on the Company’s website at 
https://on.tcs.com/annualreturn-23-24.
22. Particulars of employees
 
The information under Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014:
 
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and 
percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
in the financial year:
Name
Ratio to median remuneration
% increase in remuneration in 
the financial year
Non-executive Directors:
N Chandrasekaran@
O P Bhatt
38.3
3.1
Aarthi Subramanian@@
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
34.9
4.1
Hanne Sorensen
34.9
3.6
Keki Mistry
38.3
3.5
Al-Noor Ramji*
Don Callahan**
Executive Directors:
K Krithivasan#
N G Subramaniam
346.2
8.2
Rajesh Gopinathan##
Chief Financial Officer:
Samir Seksaria
95.4
24.0
Company Secretary:
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
37.3
31.6
 
 
As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company and hence not 
stated.
 
 
@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company and hence not stated.
 
 
Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. October 12, 2023.
 
 
** Ceased to be Director w.e.f. January 10, 2024 upon completion of his term as Independent Director.
 
 
Appointed as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
 
 
## Ceased to be Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
 
 
Remuneration received in FY 2024 is not comparable with remuneration for FY 2023 (for part of the year) and hence 
not stated.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 
b. The percentage increase in the median remuneration 
of employees in the financial year is 10.8 percent.
 
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of 
Company are 6,01,546.
 
The average annual increase was in the range of 5.5-8 
percent, with top performers receiving double digit 
increment in India. However, during the course of the 
year, the total increase is in the range of 7-9 percent, 
after accounting for promotions and other event 
based compensation revisions. Employees outside 
India received a wage increase varying from 1.5-6 
percent.
 
 
The increase in remuneration is in line with the 
market trends in the respective countries. In order 
to ensure that remuneration reflects the Company’s 
performance, the performance pay is also linked to 
organization performance and individual utilization in 
addition to individual performance.
 
 
Increase in the managerial remuneration for the year 
was 8.2 percent for COO & ED. Remuneration for 
current and erstwhile CEO & MD, is for part of the year 
and hence not considered.
 
The Company affirms that the remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy of the Company.
 
The statement containing names of top ten employees 
in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars 
of employees as required under Section 197(12) of 
the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate 
annexure forming part of this report.
 
 
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. 
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure 
is open for inspection and any Member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
23. Integrated Report
 
The Company has voluntarily provided Integrated Report, 
which encompasses both financial and non-financial 
information to enable the Members to take well-informed 
decisions and have a better understanding of the 
Company’s long-term perspective. The Report also touches 
upon aspects such as organization’s strategy, governance 
framework, performance and prospects of value creation 
based on the five forms of capital viz. financial capital, 
intellectual capital, human capital, social capital and natural 
capital.
24. Disclosure requirements
 
As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate Governance 
Report with the Auditors’ Certificate thereon, and the 
integrated Management Discussion and Analysis, the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) 
form part of the Director’s Report.
 
The BRSR indicates the Company’s performance against 
the principles of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct’. This would enable the Members to 
have an insight into Environmental, Social and Governance 
initiatives of the Company.
 
The Company has devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
25. Deposits from public
 
The Company has not accepted any deposits from public 
and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest 
on deposits from public was outstanding as on the date of 
the balance sheet.
26. Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo
 
Conservation of energy:
 
The Company is committed towards conservation of energy 
and climate action which is reaffirmed in its Environmental 
Sustainability policy (Environmental-Sustainability-Policy.
pdf (tcs.com)). 
 
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve 
the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included 
higher energy efficiencies in heating, ventilation, and air 
conditioning (HVAC) systems, uninterruptible power supply 
(UPS), green buildings and energy monitoring & analytics 
(Clever Energy & Resource Optimisation Centre) which have 
resulted in energy savings of 16,301 MWh, equivalent to 
11,671 tCO2e reduction during FY 2024. 
 
Initiatives in green IT focussed on data centre and IT device 
consolidation and optimization to reduce the carbon 
footprint. The Company reduced power consumption 
in one of the data centres by 80kW through server 
consolidation and optimization. As a concomitant interim 
outcome, the weighted average PUE increased marginally 
from 1.66 in FY 2023 to 1.7 during FY 2024. In FY 2025, TCS 
plans to optimize and consolidate the UPS infrastructure, 
towards reducing the non-IT load, thereby achieving the 
PUE target of 1.65. In addition to this, TCS will continue to 
ensure energy efficiency of the equipment procured. 
 
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System 
(TCS Clever EnergyTM) which involves real time energy 
monitoring continues to yield benefits in terms of 
optimization of operational energy efficiency across all 
offices. 
 
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year 
remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3 percent of 
total electricity use in the reporting year. A rooftop solar 
photovoltaic (PV) of 260 KWp has been planned for 
implementation in FY 2025. The Company increased the 
renewable energy procurement through switch over to 
green tariffs for its operations in several states in India, in 
addition to open access power purchase agreements (PPA) 
for renewable energy in some cases. Renewable energy 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
procurement has resulted in an increase in renewable 
energy use to 74 percent of total energy use during the 
year.
 
TCS is certified to ISO 50001:2018 standards for Energy 
Management Systems (EnMS) across 22 campuses in India. 
Out of these, 2 campuses were added under certification 
in FY 2024, continuing our commitment to energy 
conservation and management.
 
The above energy efficiency and renewable energy 
procurement efforts helped achieve a year-on-year 
reduction in absolute carbon footprint (across Scope 1 
and Scope 2) of TCS’ global operations by 31 percent. 
The company has achieved 80% reduction in absolute 
emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) when compared to the 
base year of FY 2016. The electricity consumption across 

compared to FY 2023. This is due to increased scale of 
operations considering increase in number of associates 
returning to office and inclusion of 14 locations globally 
in the reporting boundary, leading to a 2.8% increase in 
electricity consumption. 
 
The Company has achieved carbon neutrality across Scope 
1 and Scope 2 in Asia Pacific (including Japan), Europe, 
North America, UK & Ireland, Latin America, Middle East & 
Africa regions during the reporting year.
 
Continued focus on the above initiatives will enable the 
company’s aspiration of achieving its carbon target of 
Net Zero by 2030.
 
Technology absorption, adoption and innovation:
 
Research & Development (R&D): Specific areas in which 
R&D was carried out by the Company
 
TCS Research and Innovation delivered significant value 
to TCS’ customers, the research community and society at 
large through numerous initiatives and impactful outcomes.
 
Inventing for Impact:
 
TCS Research continued to expand its foundational research 
in computing and its intersection with the sciences with an 
emphasis on AI, especially Large Language Models (LLM).
 
The exploration of innovative uses of GenAI has been a 
focal point for TCS Research this year. TCS delved deep 
into three key areas: (i) Generative design for scientific 
and engineering applications, (ii) Transformation of 
knowledge work, encompassing but not restricted to 
software development and operations management, and 
(iii) Reimagination of the user engagement paradigm across 
diverse domains.
 
TCS explored use of GenAI to identify new molecules or 
modifications of existing molecules that show promise of 
being useful as new drugs (of medicinal value), as well as to 
evaluate them for ease of synthesis and manufacturing. TCS 
used GenAI to design alloys and materials while at the same 
time using generative exploration of the chemistry and the 
process route. The Company leveraged LLMs through the 
lens of domain models to curate ontology (information 
model) as well as failure/performance knowledge for large 
manufacturing operations reducing the time needed for 
such activities from months to days. The Munch Museum in 
Oslo is exploring the use of GenAI with TCS to create a 
co-drawing system for museum visitors. The use of GenAI in 
all domains of human activity is exploding and TCS Research 
is at the forefront of several such explorations.
 
The Company’s research on enterprise digital twins 
witnessed accelerated growth due to a growing interest 
and adoption of this technology across industries from 
communications to airlines and retail. TCS’ strategy of 
investing in robotics translated to a business initiative and 
gained traction with customers leading to collaborative 
partnerships with major robotics accelerators such as 
the National Robotarium, UK and MassRobotics, US. The 
software research teams continued with their focus on 
self-healing and adaptive model-driven software 
architecture, adapting to changes and uncertainties 
seamlessly. 
 
TCS continues to explore and invest in foundation research 
encompassing topics like computing for finance, building 
digital twins for the human heart and brain, quantum 
computing and nano sensing for future IoT and healthcare 
applications, meta-material based reconfigurable intelligent 
surfaces for next-generation wireless systems like 6G, 
neuromorphic computing for low-power edge-AI, 
post-quantum cryptography, and other emerging as well as 
futuristic technologies.
 
TCS continues to contribute to standards in areas such as 
environmental engineering, cyber security, cyber resilience, 
Internet of Things, smart cities, software architecture, 
quantum computing and communication, accessibility of 
ICT for the differently abled, AI, Metaverse, Agile Devops, 
e-Learning and FinTech-RegTech.
 
Our brand TCS Research won at the Global Social Media 
Awards UK 2023 for ‘Best Use of LinkedIn’. The Global Social 
Media Awards celebrates businesses around the world that 
are crashing through the algorithms and channelizing the 
chatter to create innovative, meaningful engagement that 
produces tangible results. This recognition is a testament to 
content innovation and motivates the Company to continue 
to inspire and transform the world through impactful 
stories of research and innovation.
 
Strengthening IP Base:
 
TCS launched new IP-based offerings and enhancements 
of existing IP-based offerings. The Revenue Management 
Solution strategically navigates CPG growth by leveraging 
data and insights to optimize pricing, promotions, product 
mix, and trade investments. TCS’ Observability Solution 
ensures intelligent, secure, and proactive monitoring for 
hybrid cloud applications, supporting diverse environments 
from SAP to Oracle ERP to custom applications across 
multi-cloud landscapes. The Company’s Cross Industry Digital 
Commerce Platform provides multitude core capabilities, 
industry specific capabilities and an ecosystem orchestration 
capability to the Retail, CPG, Airline and Telecom industries.
 
TCS ADD™ Metadata Repository won two awards for 
Excellence in Ancillary Pharma Services and Excellence 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
in use of Technology at the India Pharma Awards 2023. 
TCS was also recognized with 2 Golds and 1 Bronze at 
Stevie Asia Pacific Awards 2023 for ignio™ (Gold), TCS Data 
Privacy (Gold) and TCS Travel Chatbot “Trawiz” (Bronze). 
 
The Company’s intellectual property grew with 257 
publications and presentations in top-tier journals and 
conferences. As of March 31, 2024, 8,040 patents have 
been filed (cumulatively) by the Company and 3,919 
have been granted. TCS won many awards relating to 
IP, including the Asia IP Elite Award 2023, the National 
Intellectual Property Award 2023 in the category ‘Top 
Public Limited Company for Patents Filing, Grant & 
Commercialization in India in the field of Service/Others 
Sector’ and the World Intellectual Property Organization’s 
(WIPO) National Award for Enterprises for being an 
exemplar of IP value creation. TCS also recognized with 
CII Industrial Intellectual Property Awards 2023, Special 
Appreciation Award by CII acknowledging very special and 
distinctive features of some inspiring IP initiatives of the 
organization. 
 
Innovating at Scale with the Ecosystem:
 
TCS PaceTM is the fulcrum of TCS’ thought leadership and 
continues to leverage pioneering innovation to steer 
businesses through emerging technologies and define 
co-innovation strategies with customers. TCS Pace PortTM 
New York engaged with customers, analysts, and partners 
during the TCS Innovation Forum North America 2023. 
TCS Pace PortTM Amsterdam hosted the analyst community 
from EU and UK region, during the TCS Europe Analyst 
Summit 2023.
 
TCS COINTM expanded its global footprint by reaching out 
to over 250 unique TCS customers this year who need 
access to new technologies from start-ups. COIN Business 
Accelerator, a high-touch program with emerging tech 
companies, kicked off its 3rd cohort. The Accelerator is 
playing an instrumental part in TCS’ ecosystem strategy, 
increasing its innovation footprint, and winning deals. 
TCS and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) launched JLR’s Open 
Innovation program in Tel Aviv to foster disruptive mobility 
innovation and strengthen relationships between JLR and 
Israeli start-ups, scale-ups, corporate entities, investors, 
and academia as part of JLR’s Reimagine strategy. This 
partnership will leverage TCS COINTM in Israel to identify 
local technology offerings and scale them to global mobility 
solutions and services.
 
The academic network of TCS COINTM funds 42 strategic 
research project engagements across 23 academic 
institutions. TCS inaugurated a Research facility within 
the IIT Kharagpur Research Park in Kolkata this year. 
The new center will enable greater collaboration with 
IIT Kharagpur and establish TCS Research firmly within 
the Cyber Physical Systems and Digital Health research 
landscape. 
 
TCS and WIPO have joined hands to collaborate, extending 
the TCS Access Infinity platform to Accessible Books 
Consortium partner libraries in developing and least 
developed countries. TCS has strategically collaborated 
with Dassault Systèmes within the ambit of the Living 
Heart Project, fostering a collaborative environment 
encompassing cardiovascular researchers, educators, 
medical device developers and regulatory bodies such 
as the US FDA. This partnership aims to drive digital 
transformation in cardiovascular science by creating 
authentic digital simulations of the human heart. 
 
Building a Culture of Innovation:
 
TCS Research and Innovation continued with 
enterprise-wide initiatives to inspire and foster creativity 
across the domain. This year five teams from TCS made it 
to the finals of Tata Innovista 2023 and TCS won awards in 
the “Piloted technologies” and “Implemented Innovations 
– Products and Services” categories. TCS Innovista 2024, 
an internal shark-tank competition, concluded with the 
largest ever participation from TCS’ers. 12,371 teams vied 
for the top honors across multiple categories. The second 
edition of the organization wide incubation bootcamp 
was organized to encourage and support entrepreneurial 
ideas in areas of sustainability, GenAI, decentralization, 
EV ecosystems, and connected health. This year’s edition 
witnessed 126 applications across 48 business units. 
 
Digital Impact Square (DiSQ) encourages innovation using 
digital technologies to address social challenges and has 
impacted 190,543 lives across various startups in FY 2024. 
The DiSQ has been awarded with Zero Project Award 2024 
for inclusive vocational training models, inclusive education, 
and ICT. Several companies within the purview of DiSQ 
have won awards. With an aim to inspire and empower 
young minds to solve real-world environmental and 
societal challenges through technology, TCS Sustainathon 
Singapore addressed challenge statements issued by 
Dell Technologies, Citi, and LinkedIn under the theme of 
‘Empowering Women in STEM’. TCS Sustainathon South 
Africa 2023 focused on sustainable water and sanitation 
management. TCS CodeVita Season 11 received the highest 
ever registration of more than 4,44,000 from 95 countries.
 
Future course of action:
 
TCS will continue scaling its investments in IP creation, 
partnerships and offerings to deliver market leading value 
to its customers, with a focus on agility and speed to 
market that matches the fast pace of digital transformation 
of its customers are undergoing. At the same time, it will 
continue to build its talent base and focus on building a 
culture of innovation in the Company.
 
Expenditure on R&D:
 
TCS research and innovation centers are located in India 
and other parts of the world. The research centers in 
India function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 
Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers of TCS during FY 2024 and FY 2023 are given below:
 (` crore)
Expenditure on R&D and innovation
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2023
Capital

Recurring

Total R&D expenditure (a+b)

Innovation center expenditure
2,228
2,048
2,317
2,119 
Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d)
2,655
2,424
2,751
2,500
R&D and innovation expenditure as a 
percentage of total turnover
1.3%
1.3%
1.1%
1.1%
 
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
 
Export revenue constituted 93.5 percent of the total standalone revenue in FY 2024 (94.3 percent in FY 2023).
(` crore)
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
FY 2024
FY 2023
Foreign exchange earnings
1,93,252
1,83,412
CIF Value of imports

Expenditure in foreign currency
81,726
75,786
27. Acknowledgements
 
The Directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, vendors, investors and academic partners for their continuous 
support. The Directors also thank the Government of India, Governments of various states in India, Governments of various 
countries and concerned Government departments and agencies for their co-operation.
 
The Directors appreciate and value the contribution made by every member of the TCS family.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
N Chandrasekaran 
Chairman 
DIN 00121863
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
 
TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities to 
build self-reliance through technology while promoting 
the values of fairness, equity, and respect for human 
rights. It endeavors to connect people and communities to 
opportunities in the digital economy by building equitable 
and inclusive pathways for women, youth, and marginalized 
groups.
 
To address the most pressing needs of the community, 
TCS primarily focuses on the areas of education, skilling, 
employment, and entrepreneurship. The Company enables 
social innovation and community projects targeted at 
marginalized sections of society, bridging the opportunity 
gap, and investing in quality education, good health and 
well-being, clean water and sanitation, climate action, 
and disaster relief efforts in support of the basic needs 
of global communities. Additionally, TCS forms strategic 
partnerships, delves into research, provides insights, and 
pro-bono technology consultation to bolster the capacity of 
grassroots organizations.
Annexure I
Annual Report on CSR Activities
 
To achieve transformational social impact, TCS leverages 
its intellectual, technological, human, and financial capital 
and applies its contextual knowledge and the expertise 
of a diverse network of leaders to design innovative and 
sustainable solutions for societal challenges. It executes and 
scales programs using its vast capabilities in technology, 
the large employee base who volunteer their time, skills, 
and expertise for causes they believe in, and impact 
investments in large-scale, sustainable, multi-year programs 
that empower communities.
 
By directing its resources toward people and communities 
that need them the most, TCS assures equitable access. 
Every CSR initiative and program by TCS aligns with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), 
while the CSR strategy incorporates inclusion into its 
design by aligning with the Government of India and the 
Tata Group’s Affirmative Action.
 2. Composition of the CSR committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended during 
the year

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman, Non-independent 
Non-Executive Director

O P Bhatt
Member, Independent, 
Non-Executive Director

N G Subramaniam
Member, Non-Independent, 
Executive Director

Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR 
committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the Company
 
Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is 
available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.
 
CSR policy - https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
 
CSR projects - 
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) 
of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable
 
Not applicable
(a) Average net profit of the Company as per 
sub-section (5) of Section 135: `42,507 crore
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as 
per sub-section (5) of section 135: `850 crore
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years : NIL
 
(d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, 
if any : `32 crore
 
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [5(b)+5(c)-
5(d)]: `818 crore
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project 
and other than Ongoing Project): `813 crore
 
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: 
`14 crore 
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: 
NIL
 
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
[6(a)+6(b)+6(c)]: `827 crore

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
(` crore)
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year
Amount Unspent 
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
Section 135(6) of the Act
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 135(5) of the Act
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer

NIL
NIL
 
(f) 
Excess amount for set off, if any:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particular
Amount
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5)
818*
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year

(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, 
if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]

*Net of excess contribution from previous years set-off in the current financial year
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
(` crore)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under 
Section 135 
(6)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 135 
(6)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year
Amount transferred to a Fund as 
specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso Section 135(5), 
if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years
Deficiency, if 
any
Amount 
Date of transfer
NIL
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
 
 Yes 
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired : Not Applicable 
 
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
Sr. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of the 
property]
Pincode of the 
property or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent
Details of entity/Authority/Beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
NIL
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5) - Not 
Applicable
K Krithivasan
N Chandrasekaran
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
DIN: 10106739
DIN: 00121863

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
Secretarial Audit Report
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] 
To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company, to the extent the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, 
the explanations and clarifications given to us and the 
representations made by the Management and considering 
the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India, we hereby report 
that in our opinion, the Company has during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records made available to us and 
maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2024 according to the applicable provisions of:
(i) 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’):
Annexure II
Form No. MR-3
 
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
 
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
 (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 and amendments from time to time;
 
 (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period)
 
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit 
period)
 
(f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
audit period)
 
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to 
the Company during the audit period) and
 
(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely:-
 
Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made 
thereunder;
 
Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules made 
thereunder;
 
Software Technology Parks of India rules and 
regulations
 
The Indian Copyright Act, 1957
 
The Patents Act, 1970
 
The Trade Marks Act, 1999
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i) 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India with respect to board and general 
meetings.
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held 
at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings were taken 
unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines etc.
We further report that during the audit period following 
events occurred which had bearing on the Company’s affairs 
in pursuance of the above referred Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards etc.:
The Company has completed buyback of 4,09,63,855 
(Four Crore Nine Lakh Sixty Three Thousand Eight Hundred 
and Fifty Five) fully paid-up equity shares of face value of `1 
(Rupee One) each (“Equity shares”) for an aggregate amount 
not exceeding `17,000 Crore on a proportionate basis, through 
the Tender Offer route through the Stock Exchange mechanism 
as prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018, at `4,150 (Rupees 
Four Thousand One Hundred and Fifty only) per Equity Share.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
 
 
UDIN: F000327F000095202 
 
 
PR No.: 1129/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 12, 2024 
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Directors’ Report
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of 
the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on 
our audit.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were 
appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. 
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe 
that the process and practices, we followed provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management 
Representation about the Compliance of Laws, Rules and 
Regulations and happening of events etc.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited 
to the verification of procedure on test basis.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted 
the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 
UDIN: F000327F000095202 
PR No.: 1129/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 12, 2024

Management Discussion and Analysis
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

Nasscom, World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2024 

Gartner
Overview of the Industry
The journey over the past few years has been eventful, starting 
with supply-chain disruptions in the aftermath of the pandemic, 
the Russia-Ukraine war that triggered a global energy and 
food crisis, and a considerable surge in inflation, followed by a 
globally synchronized monetary policy tightening. The global 
GDP is estimated to have grown at 3.2% in CY 2023, lower than 
3.5% in CY 20221, led by fears of a hard recession. Yet, despite 
many gloomy predictions, the world avoided a recession, the 
banking system proved largely resilient, and major emerging 
market economies did not suffer sudden stops. Economic 
growth has been stronger than expected in the second half of 
2023 in the United States, and several major emerging market 
and developing economies. However, the rising momentum was 
not felt everywhere, with notably subdued growth in the euro 
area, reflecting weak consumer sentiment, the lingering effects 
of high energy prices, and weakness in interest-rate-sensitive 
sectors.
Unmet revenue expectations have ushered in a new wave of 
pragmatism where maintaining a healthy profit margin has 
become pivotal for corporations due to the uncertain macrooutlook. In extreme cases, organizations resorted to cost-cutting 
measures, such as reducing headcount and cutting discretionary 
spending, including IT services. Organizations taking a more 
rational approach are simply shifting the emphasis of ongoing 
IT projects toward cost control, efficiencies and automation 
while curtailing IT initiatives with longer RoIs. Global technology 
spending on Enterprise software and IT services was close to the 
US$2.3 trillion2 mark in CY 2023, with IT services growing at 6.1% 
YoY to US$1.4 trillion. 
The global IT services industry continues to be a highly 
fragmented one, with even the largest provider having a 
mid-single digit market share. TCS is among the largest IT 
services providers globally, with a market share of 2.1%. TCS’ 
outperformance is significantly higher over the last decade. 
The outperformance may be attributed to market share gains 
resulting from TCS’ strategy on customer centricity, its agile 
organization structure, and a very stable leadership team; 
its investments in organic talent development, research and 
innovation, intellectual property, brand building, and in building 
newer capabilities that have helped expand wallet share with 
clients; and better execution resulting in greater customer 
satisfaction. 
TCS’ Business
An Overview
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions 
organization partnering many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformational journeys for the last 56 years. It has 
a global presence, deep domain expertise in multiple industry 
verticals and a complete portfolio of offerings – grouped under 
consulting and service integration, application services, digital 
transformation services, AI and cloud services, engineering 
services, cognitive business operations, and products and 
platforms – targeting every C-suite stakeholder. 
The company leverages all these capabilities and its profound 
contextual knowledge of its customers’ businesses to create 
bespoke, high quality, high impact solutions designed to deliver 
Global Spend on IT Services (US$ Bn)
TCS Revenue (US$ Bn)
FY 2014
FY 2024
2.2x
1.5x
US$ Billion
13.4

1,385
29.1
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis

GRI 2-22 

 Ref AR FY 2012, MD&A, Pages 25, 29 

 Ref AR FY 2010, Letter from CEO, Page 7
differentiated business outcomes. These solutions are delivered 
using its operating model which enables a highly distributed, 
Location Independent Agile™ delivery.
TCS geographic footprint covers North America, Latin America, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, India and 
Middle-East Africa.
TCS considers industry verticals as its primary go-to-market 
business segments. The five key vertical clusters are: Banking, 
Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Communication, Media 
and Technology (CMT), Consumer Business, Life Sciences 
and Healthcare, Manufacturing and Others such as Energy, 
Resources and Utilities, Public Services and Products.
Strategy for Sustainable Growth3
TCS has successfully navigated through multiple technology 
cycles since its inception, transforming and adapting each time 
to build relevant new capabilities and helping its clients realize 
the benefits of that innovative technology. TCS’ responsiveness, 
agility and adaptability to change have been core to its longevity.
Customer-centricity is at the heart of TCS’ strategy, organization 
structure and investment decisions. TCS has been broadening 
and deepening customer relationships by continually looking 
for new opportunities and newer areas in their businesses to 
add value, proactively investing in building capabilities, reskilling 
its workforce, and launching innovative services, solutions, 
products, and platforms to address those opportunities. 
TCS is reinventing itself at a time of unprecedented change in 
the IT Services industry. Digital, AI and Cloud technologies are 
now business enablers, and core to the success of business, 
fueling the need for enterprise-wide transformation and 
continuous innovation. 
Technology disruption is blurring traditional industry lines, 
making cross-industry expertise an imperative. Adaptation is 
the key to survival. TCS believes in the power of inspiration 
and invention to build greater futures and help in transforming 
industries. The company’s research and innovation team apply 
scientific rigor and a collaborative mindset to solve pressing 
problems faced by industries and society. 
Over time, this strategy has resulted in deep and enduring 
customer relationships, a vibrant and engaged workforce, 
industry-leading profitability, a steady expansion of the 
addressable market, and a proven record of accomplishment in 
delivering longer term stakeholder value. 
Enabling Investments
TCS has been at the forefront of every technology adoption cycle 
over the past several decades. The company has anticipated 
every technology change and invested in innovation, talent, 
intellectual property, and partnerships well in advance. TCS 
pioneered4 the ‘Default is Digital’ approach to leverage the 
new family of technologies that emerged in the last decade. 
TCS was early to identify that decision making in enterprises 
would increase in complexity and would require novel uses of 
digital technologies. Its research into Enterprise Digital Twins 
enables it to simulate enterprises in hi-fidelity and use AI for 
decision making. Backed by 10 years of research (started in 
2013) and over 40 publications in top-tier journals, TCS launched 
an Enterprise Digital Twin product offering called TCS TwinX™. 
The multiple award-winning product today simulates enterprise 
decision making for several TCS customers.
Quick to recognize the potential of cloud, the company made 
investments ahead of time in launching new platform-based 
business models as far back as in 20095, reskilling the workforce, 
research and innovation, building collaborative workspaces 
and innovation centers, intellectual property, and alliances and 
partnerships. TCS created a separate research group focused on 
‘Deep Learning and AI’ in 2017 and identified ‘AI’ as a critical skill 
that every researcher should acquire. TCS has doubled down 
on partnerships in areas such as AI, Quantum Computing and 
Cybersecurity. These early investments have given TCS a headstart in being a partner in its customers’ technology adoption 
lifecycles. 
The exploration of innovative uses of GenAI has been a 
focal point for TCS Research this year. More details on TCS 
R&I investments during the year are available on Page 61 of 
Directors’ Report in the section on ‘Technology absorption, 
adoption and innovation’. 
TCS’ dedication to innovation is evident with its dynamic 
intellectual property (IP) portfolio, which saw continual 
enhancement through the filing and granting of patents and the 
publication of research papers. TCS’ IP portfolio has grown by a 
CAGR of over 13% over the past decade. TCS is the largest patent 
filer in the industry category in India and has been honored with 
42 IP awards in the last 10 years, including winning the National 
IP Award 4 times in the last 7 years. 
TCS’ dedicated practice units around major hyperscalers have 
been steadily investing in training, certifications, credentials 
and in building solutions and intellectual property on their 
respective hyperscaler stacks. AI.Cloud Academy was launched 
to bring together initiatives from all Cloud and AI partners, and 
to drive talent transformation at scale with a theme “Making AI 
REAL” for TCS’ customers. As on 31st March 2024, TCS had one 
of the world’s largest AI/ML and GenAI trained workforce. AI 
Experience Zone, TCS’s indigenous, multi-platform AI playground 
continues to develop employees with higher competencies 
in GenAI through Industry specific use cases integrated into 
programs and hackathons. One of the significant investments 
has been in building a multi modal, hyperscaler agnostic, domain 
catalogue enabled, pattern driven, multi orchestrator GenAI 
platform called TCS AI WisdomNext to help customers accelerate 
their GenAI journey.
In addition to the hyperscalers, TCS has also invested in building 
key partnerships with other major cloud and AI ecosystem 
partners, to bring best of GenAI offerings to TCS’ customers. TCS 
has invested in deep dive technical training along with hands-on 
sessions to help upskill existing employees thereby empowering 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
them to leverage technology as part of ongoing delivery. TCS has launched AI Academy and the AI Experience Zone platform for 
experiential AI/ML and GenAI talent development. TCS has launched several PoVs on how the industry value chains including personas 
involved can be transformed using the power of GenAI. TCS also has significantly invested in onboarding 150+ horizontal and vertical 
solutions on hyperscaler platforms in a cloud native manner augmented with GenAI capabilities. 
As TCS transforms industries, building momentum requires continuous perseverance, flawless execution against the company’s 
strategic priorities: Customer Centricity and Employee Empathy.
TCS’ Strategic Responses to Opportunities and Threats
Opportunity / Threat
TCS Approach
Outcomes
Macroeconomic 
uncertainty and 
geopolitical volatility 
impacting decision 
making and prompting 
an increased mix of 
cost optimization and 
cloud transformationled deals and reduced 
discretionary spend
Proven track record in helping enterprises reduce their 
cost of operations.
Proactive pitching of IT and business operating model 
transformations that deliver greater efficiency, enhance 
enterprise agility, resilience and better output.
Leveraging full services capability and deep client 
relationships to propose product-aligned operating 
models. 
Use of TCS Cognix™ to accelerate operations 
transformation, using over 600 pre-built automation 
components that infuse AI/ML and other technologies 
into IT and business processes to reduce human 
intervention, increase velocity and productivity.
Strong deal flow resulting in a robust 
order book that gives better visibility of 
medium to long-term growth.
Market share gains in vendor 
consolidation led deals.
Efficiency gains helping fund client’s 
transformation programs in some 
instances. 
TCS Cognix recognized as a means of 
driving quicker realization of RoI.
Greater interest in 
using technology to 
drive business growth 
and differentiation
Focused on developing contextual knowledge and 
applying that for inside-out transformations.
Continued investments in research and innovation, TCS 
Pace Ports, and intellectual property.
Dedicated practice with domain experts to bring 
together TCS’ differentiated capabilities from across the 
organization to stitch together comprehensive solutions.
Proactive pitching of solutions to customers’ most 
pressing business problems.
Refocused on industry expertise, as well as technology 
and service lines, increased investment in regional 
markets to diversify portfolio.
Nation building programs which add to capabilities and 
credentials.
Deepened partner ecosystem for joint go-to-market 
strategy.
Expansion of addressable market.
Higher quality revenue, lending margin 
resilience.
More deeply embedded in the client’s 
business.
Engaging with a broader set of buyers in 
the client organization.
Higher visibility within C-Suites.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Opportunity / Threat
TCS Approach
Outcomes
Strategic technology 
investments
 Set up the AI.Cloud unit bringing both Cloud and AI 
capabilities together to drive transformations for the 
customer under a ‘Responsible AI’ framework; invested 
in Intrapreneurial teams to discover the art of the 
possible.
Continued investment in skill building, certifications, 
credentials, IP and accelerators.
Made available TCS products and solutions on public 
clouds.
Strong growth in cloud migration and 
transformation revenues. 
Working on 250+ PoCs and PoVs in 
Assist and Augment use cases, few 
programs moving into production.
Top tier partner to each of the 
hyperscalers.
Preferred partner to clients seeking to 
use cloud native capabilities to power 
their business transformation.
Over half of the workforce trained in AI/
ML and GenAI technologies.
Greater acceptance of 
as-a-Service platforms 
Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings 
around the popular and new SaaS products.
Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch 
new SaaS versions.
Partnering with product manufacturers to help launch 
innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS Bring Life to 
Things IoT framework. 
TCS IP:
Promoted SaaS versions of in-house product portfolio, 
now available on hyperscaler platforms.
Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that bundle IP 
and shared services on the cloud.
Outperformance and differentiated 
growth compared to peers.
Stronger win-win partnerships.
Expansion of addressable market.
Strong growth in SaaS sales.
Platforms drive stickier relationships, 
with long term revenue visibility.
* Independent Software Vendor
Talent Management
TCS is a talent and innovation led organization that aims to 
attract, develop, motivate, and retain diverse talent, which is 
critical for its competitive differentiation and continued success. 
TCS strives to create a vibrant workplace and an engaged 
workforce by encouraging four behaviors: follow your passion, 
stay hungry, commit to lifelong learning, and thrive together.
In FY 2024, the total employee base of TCS was 601,546, 
representing 152 nationalities, with 35.6% women in the 
workforce. 
Talent Acquisition
The company remains the preferred employer and one of the 
largest job creators in IT services in several major markets, 
for both freshers and lateral hires. FY 2024 has been yet 
another vibrant year for Talent Acquisition with strong business 
partnerships to meet talent requirements proactively, at scale 
and on-demand. 
Key Achievements: 
Hiring during the year: During the year, the company’s 
hiring strategy included a mix of physical campus visits, 
candidates hired through its National Qualifier Test (NQT) 
and focused hiring from top B-schools. TCS continues with 
internship and placement offers as part of the Strategic 
Leadership Program.
TCS Academic Interface Program (AIP) continued to 
engage with faculty and students through focus group 
connections, workshops, faculty development programs 
and other campus outreach activities. In FY 2024, TCS 
engaged with over 194,000 students and about 17,500 
faculty members in nearly 1,200 partner academic 
institutes across the world. More than 1,500 interns were 
engaged during the year. 
TCS Sangam: “Meeting of Minds” is TCS’ flagship event 
celebrating industry -academia collaboration. Sangam 2024 
saw participation from more than 80 leading academicians 
including distinguished Vice Chancellors and Directors 
representing a diverse group of institutions including IITs, 
NITs, IIMs, and premium institutions. 
Talent Development
Building a future-ready workforce is one of the top priorities 
for Talent Development. In FY 2024 several key initiatives were 
launched to inculcate a strong engineering culture among the 
company’s employees and build deeper skills in market relevant 
technologies and create an AI ready workforce. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Few notable programs: 
#IamGenAIReady – Intense focus on building GenAI 
capabilities with a goal to make “Every TCSer GenAI ready 
by 2025”. TCS exceeded its initial targets and now has one 
of the world’s largest AI/ML and GenAI Ready workforce 
across the world. 
Building a Strong Engineering Culture: 
 
Software Engineering - Reinforcing clean coding and 
assuring best engineering practices. 
 
Secuware training program to create deep 
understanding of secure coding and configuration 
practice across Application, Network, Cloud and Data 
Systems.
TCS Elevate: TCS’ pioneering program linking learning 
to career growth and reward covered over 423,000 
employees. More than 35,200 employees were identified 
as high talent and saw an increase in their compensation.
TCS Contextual Masters: TCS’ program to identify tenured 
employees with contextual knowledge of the customer’s 
business and technology landscape, continues to expand 
with over 73,000 Contextual Masters who are being 
groomed to be next generation transformation leaders.
Key Metrics: 
More than 147,000 external certificates were acquired in 
FY 2024.
TCS continued its focus on leveraging internal talent 
through upskilling and cross skilling for growth 
opportunities. In FY 2024, 33% of job requirements were 
fulfilled through grooming its internal talent. 
Talent Transformation
TCS is building a culture of mentoring and promoting it through 
systemic intervention programs, and the company now has over 
36,000 mentors.
TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees achieve career 
growth and aspirations. 
iConnect – Collaboration tool designed to help employees 
reach out to senior mentors for guidance on career paths. 
More than 103,000 iConnect sessions were initiated. 
Xcelerate - TCS’ in-house career guidance system, which 
guides TCSers to share their career aspirations. The portal 
saw more than 462,000 aspirations recorded in FY 2024, 
and over 26,300 have met their aspirational roles.
Over 135,000 TCSers initiated their 360-degree inclusive 
feedback process, with team members, peers and 
managers being nominated as participants to give feedback 
on their skills and attributes. This engagement provides 
strong impetus toward overall talent transformation at each 
individual level.
Competitive Compensation
Compensation levels are merit based, determined by 
qualification, experience levels, special skills if any, and individual 
performance. Compensation structures are driven by prevailing 
practices in each country that TCS operates in. The merit 
based, democratized, transparent talent framework – Elevate, 
is designed to establish a tighter linkage between learning, 
skill development, career, and reward. The company regularly 
benchmarks its compensation plans and benefits with the 
market to ensure competitiveness. 
Across the enterprise, remuneration is the same for men and 
women working full-time, in the same grade, in the same role, 
and at the same location. 
Talent Engagement 
In FY 2024, focus was on value-driven, and positive wellbeing 
of the employees to increase pride and belongingness. The 
key initiatives driven for impact were manager sensitization 
workshops for culture assimilation, joiners’ talent integration, 
career growth and total wellbeing of the employees. 
With TCS encouraging 100% employees returning to work, 
various programs are being run to enable higher levels of 
engagement. Employees were engaged through town halls and 
project confluences with an emphasis on Living my Values, 
Build my Career and Lifelong Learning. The company enabled 
more than 33,000 one-on-one mentoring sessions and over 
255,000 one-on-one HR career conversations.
Family Day: The Family Day Fiesta is a well-thought-out 
endeavor to strengthen bonds, instill pride, and propagate 
the #OneTCS culture. The event provides an open invitation 
for family members to step into TCS offices, allowing them to 
experience the work environment firsthand. It was celebrated 
across 14 India locations, with over 300,000 people taking part 
with great enthusiasm. 
Other engagement and collaboration platforms in TCS include: 
Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social 
collaboration within the organization, learning, sharing and 
for rewards and recognition.
Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety and 
security. 
TCS Cares: Aims to build an emotionally strong and 
mentally resilient workforce through sensitization, easy 
access to self-help and counselling. More than 24,000 
counselling sessions were availed globally and over 40,000 
employees attended TCS Cares webinars globally.
Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness conscious 
employees and creates a culture of fitness.
 
Health & Wellbeing: 140,000 active users contributed 
total 50 million+ kms. 
 
Yoga: Over 45,000 employees took part in practicing 
Yoga.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis

 GRI 402-1
PULSE: Pulse 2023 recorded an enthusiastic participation 
with more than 82% of employees taking the survey. TCS 
has achieved a Satisfaction Index of 79.0 and Engagement 
Index of 80.0.
Purposeful People Policies
Key policies introduced in FY 2024 include:
Policy on Flexible Work Arrangements extended the scope 
of the existing policy to provide necessary support and 
flexibility to all employees (inclusive of fathers/non-birthing 
parents) who are primary caregivers of young children, post 
childbirth or adoption of a child. 
Considering TCS has a considerable workforce below 40 
years of age, TCS encouraged employees to prioritize 
their health and fitness, and revised its TCS India Policy – 
Preventive Health Screening, to extend the scope of the 
existing policy to employees under the age of 40 years.
Employee Retention
TCS’ values-driven culture, progressive HR policies, and 
philosophy of investing in people and empowering them have 
been integral in creating a culture of belonging. The company’s 
philosophy of grooming leadership from within and giving the 
first right of refusal to internal talent for new open positions, 
inspires higher levels of loyalty to the organization. This has 
resulted in a very strong, deeply acculturated mid-layer with 
long tenures in the company. They have played a pivotal role in 
integrating new talent and have added significant value through 
their contributions and contextual knowledge.
The company’s employee friendly policies and processes, 
collaborative and inclusive work environment, investment in 
learning platforms and providing vibrant learning and career 
growth opportunities have helped it remain a benchmark in 
talent retention. IT services’ attrition trended down throughout 
the year and was 12.5% for FY 2024. At TCS, three months’ 
notice is required from either side for termination6. 
Return to Office
TCS is built on deep engagement with its diverse and distributed 
workforce, instilling in them a sense of purpose as well as a 
sense of belonging and pride. Return to Office (RTO) is a key 
priority to better integrate new joiners and stay deeply engaged 
with all its people, thereby fostering ‘TCS Culture’ and the ‘TCS 
Way’. This is vital for employees to “experience” the workplace 
ecosystem. RTO has been the key priority to better integrate 
new joiners and stay deeply engaged with all its employees. 
TCS has approximately 55% of its employees working from the 
office on all working days of the week.
Culture and Diversity
TCS is an equal opportunity employer and has a well-defined and 
progressive Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) policy embracing 
all diversity parameters which includes gender, marital status, 
religion, race/caste, colour, age, ancestry, nationality, language, 
ethnic origin, socio-economic status, physical appearance, 
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression 
and any other category protected by applicable law.

necessary to drive innovation, foster creativity, and guide 
business strategies. Other highlights include:
iExcel: TCS’ flagship executive leadership development 
program for women completed 24 editions, benefiting over 
1,700 women leaders.
Client engagement: Allies of Diversity is a program where 
senior leadership from client organizations are invited to 
share diversity best practices. Engagement with 100 C-Suite 
leaders and 80 different client organizations has been 
completed to date. 
Education and Sensitization: TCS has mandatory online 
training designed to sensitize employees on key concepts 
of DEI. More than 500,000 employees completed this in FY 
2024.
Employee Resource Groups: Platforms for underrepresented communities and their allies to share 
concerns, experiences, stories and strategic solutions. TCS 
has 13 voluntary, employee-led groups that have come 
together based on shared diversity identity characteristics 
or interest. 
Champions of Equity: This campaign was created to ensure 
a fair and inclusive culture in the workplace. A Champion of 
Equity is someone who treats everyone with fairness and 
transparency and holds a strength-based approach towards 
every individual, culture, and system. 
Supplier Diversity: TCS has a Supplier Diversity Program 
that identifies certified diverse suppliers that can provide 
competitive, high-quality goods and services whose business 
model is aligned with the company’s business strategy. 
Occupational Health and Safety
TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
policy and supporting processes to ensure the safety and 
well-being of its employees. Safety lead and lag indicators 
are measured across the organization and reported. The 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in the Board reviews the 
company’s health and safety performance half-yearly. 89.6% of 
the workforce is represented in joint management-employee 
health and safety committees that monitor, advise, and drive 
occupational, health and safety initiatives. 
TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System standard across 129 of its facilities 
worldwide covering 84.9% of delivery centers corresponding 
to 89.6% of people footprint operating from these locations. 
General safety awareness (fire safety, office safety, road safety 
etc.) and safety incident reporting awareness was provided to 
employees through monthly themes and campaign initiatives. 
The company continued to focus on creating ergonomic 
awareness including correct postures and workstation stretches 
for an office-based work environment through the ergonomic 
campaigns and periodic webinars. There were also several 
fitness programs, including yoga and meditation practices, 
mental health and wellbeing which drew employee participation.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Financial Performance Overview
The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the year that ended 
March 31, 2024. The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or 
‘the Company’) are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as `Ind AS’) prescribed under section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to time. 
Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the company:
(` crore)
FY 2024*
FY 2024
FY 2023 
Amount
% of 
Revenue
% Growth
Amount
% of 
Revenue
Amount
% of 
Revenue
Revenue from operations
240,893
100.0
6.8
240,893
100.0
225,458
100.0
Earnings before interest and tax 
(EBIT) (Before other income)
59,311
24.6
9.4
58,353
24.2
54,237
24.1
Profit after tax attributable to 
shareholders of the company
46,585
19.3
10.5
45,908
19.1
42,147
18.7
Earnings per share (in ₹)
127.74
10.9
125.88
115.19
Analysis of revenue growth and margin performance
On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 6.8% in FY 2024, compared to 17.6% in the prior year. The company’s performance showed 
a remarkable resilience against the backdrop of macro uncertainty and geo-political volatility. Demand for TCS’ services, particularly 
around cloud adoption, cost optimization, vendor consolidation and operating model transformation, resulted in record deal wins. The 
newly won deals conversion into revenue continued as expected, but the revenue inflows kept getting neutralized by reduction in the 
existing revenue base as some of the earlier projects got completed, optimized, or in some cases, downsized. This led to overall muted 
revenue growth in FY 2024. 
EBIT margins were 24.6%* in FY 2024, compared to 24.1% in the previous year. Margin improvement was led by improved productivity, 
better utilization and reduction in subcontractor expenses.
Average currency exchange rates during FY 2024 for the three major currencies are given below:
Currency
Weightage (%)
FY 2024
FY 2023
% Change YoY
USD
53.3
82.83
80.74
2.6
GBP
14.4
104.07
96.98
7.3
EUR
11.1
89.80
84.01
6.9
Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a positive impact of 3.4% on the reported revenue. The constant 
currency revenue growth for the year, which is the reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 3.4%.
Growth attributable to
FY 2024 (%)
FY 2023 (%)
Business growth
3.4
13.7
Impact of exchange rate
3.4
3.9
Total Growth
6.8
17.6
* Excludes settlement of legal claim
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis

Only industry specific drivers are listed. In addition, every industry vertical saw demand for TCS’ services arising from IT estate rationalization, 
core platform simplification, application and data modernization, ERP modernization, cloud adoption and infrastructure modernization, hybrid 
cloud strategies, hyper automation, cloud enablement, cloud migration, data democratization, data compliance and protection, IT infrastructure 
modernization, employee experience redesign, digital workplace transformation, cyber security, intelligent automation, business and IT 
operating model transformation, agile and DevOps adoption, digital marketing and analytics, mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, supply chain 
transformation, vendor consolidation and cost optimization. Also, there is an increasing interest in Gen AI led value chain transformation.
Segmental Performance 
The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:
Revenue by Industry Vertical
Revenue by Geography
Banking, Financial 
Services and 
Insurance 37.7% 
Others 8.7%
Life Sciences 
and Healthcare 
11.1%
Manufacturing 
9.8%
Communication, Media 
and Technology 16.4%
Consumer 
Business 16.3%
Continental 
Europe 14.9%
Asia Paciﬁc 7.8%
North America 
51.1%
India 5.6%
Middle East 
and Africa 2.1%
Latin America 2.0%
United 
Kingdom 16.5%
Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
` crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
Banking, Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
90,928
(86,127)
5.6 • 
Customer journey transformation, payment modernization, new 
products and services creation with simultaneous transformation of 
core systems, legacy modernization, and systems of engagement. 
GenAI / AI for hyper personalization, fraud detection, AI-driven 
advisory and customer support. 
Sustainability and climate change initiatives, green lending, ESG 
regulatory compliance.
Service Reliability Engineering, implementation of future-ready target 
operating model.
25.9
(25.9)
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
39,391
(37,653)
4.6 Communication, Media and Information Services:
5G and fiber rollout, digital product innovation, smart bundling, 
network virtualization, product and platform engineering.
Steady adoption of GenAI, autonomous networks, automated content 
creation, contact center transformation, marketing personalization, 
field operations productivity, software engineering, ecosystem play. 
Technology and Services:
Product innovation - Digital platform led businesses, Next-gen 
communication tech (5G and Satellite Communication), AI platforms, 
faster and efficient chips, cloudification of the engineering 
environment.
Enabling new business models - Everything-as-a-service (XaaS), 
Subscription-based services (SaaS), transition to direct channels.
Digital core transformation - Next generation cloud ERPs, PLM, CRM to 
standardize, simplify and scale business, cloud data engineering and 
analytics.
27.7
(28.3)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
` crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
Consumer Business
39,357
(37,506)
4.9 Retail and Consumer Packaged Goods:
Marketplace, social commerce, future stores, Retail media networks, 
payments.
Smart checkout, smart shelves, smart manufacturing, sustainability, 
AI-enabled pricing.
Resilient and intelligent supply chain, track and trace, last-mile delivery, 
intelligent inventory management, green labelling.
Seamless and unified customer experience across channels (omnichannel), hyper personalization, CX and recommendations, AI for 
apparel design.
Travel, Transportation and Hospitality:
Retailing in airlines, new distribution capability, decision intelligence.
Automation and self-service, touchless experience, digital identity 
solutions, maintenance drones, autonomous vehicles, and robotics.
Warehouse robotics, intelligent shipment planning, last mile delivery, 
real-time insights driven operations, AI-enabled pricing, end-to-end 
shipment visibility in logistics. 
Safe and sustainable travel. 
26.0
(25.7)
Life Sciences and 
Healthcare
26,745
(24,605)
8.7 Life Sciences:
Modernization of clinical landscape to accelerate launch of new 
medicines, repurpose medicines and reduce cost of clinical trials.
Digital twin for manufacturing and factory of the future. 
GenAI to empower knowledge synthesis and high precision in 
contextual information discovery.
S/4 Hana led enterprise transformation.
Health Care:
AI driven agility in decision making and increasing efficiency across the 
ecosystem.
Patient experience, new business models in value-based care, remote 
care, and care in new settings.
Structural changes to address access to care, experience, quality and 
affordability, transparency and trust, holistic health.
28.5
(28.0)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis

 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, April 2024 

 Gartner
Industry Vertical
Segment 
Revenue 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
` crore
YoY 
Revenue 
Growth 
Key Demand Drivers7
Segment 
Margin 
FY 2024 
(FY 2023) 
Manufacturing
23,491
(21,236)
10.6 • 
Sustainable fuels, sustainable transportation, sustainable materials, 
circular economy.
Connected Autonomous Vehicles, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems.
Resilient supply chain, parts track and trace, D2C.
Vertical farming, precision agriculture. 
Battery technology, Electric vehicles.
Connected assets and smart plants, factory twin, plant safety and 
modernization, energy efficiency and decarbonization, emission 
tracking and monitoring.
GenAI as an enabler across the value chain, specifically in the areas 
such as sales cycles, product design and development. 
30.9
(27.5)
Others
20,981
(18,331)
14.5 • 
Renewable integrations in the grid and associated system changes.
Asset performance management.
Accommodate the next generation of field workers.
22.3
(21.1)
Business Outlook
Global growth estimated at 3.2 percent in 2023 is projected to 
continue at the same pace in 2024 and 20258. With disinflation 
and steady growth, the likelihood of a hard landing seems to 
have receded, and risks to global growth seem broadly balanced. 
The uncertainty seen through last year is expected to persist 
for the next few quarters. Capex investments are projected to 
remain subdued as enterprises focus on maximizing returns 
from existing investments, resulting in muted spending on 
infrastructure, software, and services. Cessation of hostilities 
and successful control of inflation can be the triggers for 
recovery which will stimulate global demand. This, in turn, 
should prompt customers to resume spending on discretionary 
products and services.
Despite challenges, spending on IT services has been resilient so far. 
Cloud technologies have become the mainstay of an enterprise’s 
agenda and key to achieving sustainable growth. As a unifying 
digital hub that brings multiple other technologies to life, cloud has 
accelerated digital and business transformation over the last fiscal. 
The higher level of uncertainty in the business environment has 
made clients more receptive to proactive proposals around IT and 
business operating model transformations that can not only deliver 
significant efficiencies but also help them become more agile and 
resilient. All this has resulted in a record order book for FY 2024, at 
US$42.7 billion. Global IT Spending is expected to increase 8% in 
20249, with enterprises emphasizing on organizational efficiency 
and optimization. 
Last year saw GenAI seemingly at the heart of every strategic 
discussion. Fueled by cloud, this combination of AI capabilities 
is creating new possibilities and new opportunities. Firms will 
continue to invest heavily in technology to enhance efficiency, 
security, and customer experience. Rise in spend is expected in 
cloud computing, ecosystem play and GenAI leading to better 
resilience and new customer value creation. Cybersecurity 
will remain a top priority, driving demand for advanced threat 
detection and prevention solutions. 
All the above factors provide growth visibility over the medium 
to long term amid near-term uncertainty. If the delayed 
decision-making and cash conservation seen in some segments 
through FY 2024 continues into the next fiscal year, it could lead 
to a moderation in growth in FY 2025.
Key demand drivers expected to power the company’s growth in 
FY 2025 include:
Technology transformation: IT infrastructure 
modernization, cloud enablement, application and data 
estate modernization, cloud migration and transformation; 
data centre and collocated data support; SaaS adoption; 
digital workplace; digital twins; cyber security; ERP 
modernization; low-code no-code; 5G/Edge and AI 
adoption. 
Business Transformation: Customer experience 
transformation using personalization, omnichannel 
implementation, immersive experiences using XR/
Metaverse; product and business model innovation; supply 
chain modernization; M&A integration / divestitures; 
sustainability, new business model enablement, by 
harnessing GenAI.
Operations: Plain vanilla outsourcing, vendor consolidation 
and multi-services deals; AI/ML-led transformation of IT 
/ business operations for greater resilience and leaner 
operating models; managed services models and real time 
operation visibility. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis

 GRI 3-3 

 GRI 201-2
Enterprise Risk Management
TCS understands the importance of effectively managing and 
mitigating risks to protect the company’s business, its clients, 
to add value for all its stakeholders, and ensuring that the 
company’s reputation is intact.
The company follows a comprehensive enterprise risk 
management framework (based on best practices from COSO 
2017 and ISO 31000:2018) that encompasses risk identification, 
risk assessment, risk response planning and actions, risk 
monitoring and overall risk governance. Fostering a risk aware 
culture and empowering leaders to take intelligent risks to 
maximize value are crucial. TCS regularly conducts risk reviews, 
assessments, and scenario planning to anticipate potential 
challenges and develop mitigation plans. Key risk indicators 
and control indicators are used to assess risks, provide early 
warnings, and consider effectiveness of the mitigation actions, 
respectively. Furthermore, the company engages with all 
stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, 
partners and regulatory authorities, to ensure transparent and 
collaborative risk management practices.
TCS takes a holistic view of its enterprise risk profile, covering 
strategic, operational, compliance, financial and catastrophic 
risks, thus enabling informed decision-making. Risks are 
assessed and managed at various levels with a top-down and 
bottom-up approach across the enterprise, business units, 
geographies, business functions, customer relationships and 
individual projects.
By proactively managing and mitigating these risks, the 
company’s aim is to ensure the long-term sustainability and 
success of the company. TCS is confident that its robust 
risk management initiatives, coupled with its commitment 
to innovation and excellence, will enable the company to 
navigate the challenges of the IT industry and capitalize on the 
opportunities that lie ahead.
Listed below are some of the key risks and opportunities, 
anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies. 
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Volatile global 
political and 
economic 
environment (R)
Impact On: Human Capital, Financial 
Capital
Geo-politics and macroeconomic 
volatility can affect demand for the 
company’s services. The Russia-Ukraine 
war and the Israel-Hamas conflict in the 
last 2 years has continued to lead to 
supply chain disruptions, energy crises, 
food and merchandise scarcities and 
impact on inflation. 
Persistent high inflation in major 
economies could affect consumer 
confidence. The current high interest 
rate environment could result in 
economic slowdowns, affecting not 
only spending, but also squeezing 
liquidity.
All of these could affect clients’ 
business outlook and result in 
reduced demand for TCS’ services. It 
could also increase TCS’ costs of doing 
business. 
In addition, there could be risks to 
service delivery, business continuity, 
cybersecurity, sanctions compliance 
and human rights risks in geopolitically sensitive zones, all of which 
could increase costs or affect the 
company’s revenue growth. 
Broad-based business mix, well diversified 
across geographies and industry verticals. 
Monitor changing geopolitical scenarios 
and strengthen internal controls to further 
safeguard against secondary risks.
Country-level business continuity plans in 
place to address potential conflicts in the 
region.
Offerings and value propositions targeting all 
CxOs (in addition to the CIO) in the customer 
organization.
Focus on cost and optimization propositions, 
including vendor consolidation initiatives 
in the near term to improve their business 
efficiency, when the customer’s discretionary 
budgets are uncertain.
Participate in the customer’s business 
transformation initiatives through breadth 
and depth of services and offerings. 
Enter more long-term contracts.
Proactively invest in infrastructure and 
resourcing to meet anticipated customer 
demand for flexible products, AI/GenAI 
offerings, platforms-based solutions and 
subscription-based services to gain market 
share and new clients and markets.
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Ability to attract 
and retain top 
talent; short 
supply of emerging 
technical skills (R)
Impact On: Human Capital, Intellectual 
Capital
The company’s ability to attract, 
develop, motivate, and retain talent is 
critical to its business success. 
Inability to scale up experienced 
professionals with niche digital/AI/
GenAI skills from the market or lack of 
these skills in-house, can also impact 
TCS’ ability to grow.
Talent scarcity can lead to poaching of 
the company’s employees and result 
in higher attrition. This can disrupt 
ongoing projects, slow down planned 
ramp ups and affect revenue growth.
Commitment to organic talent development, 
best in class learning and development, 
career growth linkage to cross-skilling / 
upskilling, preference to internal talent for 
new leadership positions, all incentivize and 
improved retention.
Massive re-skilling program #IamGenAIReady 
to train employees on AI/GenAI and other 
emerging technologies to be ready for 
deployment in customer projects.
Focused employee engagement program 
which includes bringing all employees ‘Back 
to Office’, to increase a sense of belonging 
and foster the TCS culture.
Leverage top employer brand and social 
networking sites and talent sourcing channels 
to tap into the passive pool.
Reduce talent acquisition cycle time to improve 
joining rates through innovative practices.
Engage in various markets through 
investments in STEM/GoIT programs, campus 
engagements, local hiring and building 
reputation to attract local talent.
Negative
Restrictions on 
global mobility, 
location strategies 
(R)
Impact On: Human Capital, Intellectual 
Capital
Distributed software development 
models require the free movement 
of people across countries and any 
restrictions in key markets pose a 
threat to the global mobility of skilled 
professionals. 
Restrictions due to legislations which 
limit the availability of work visas, or 
which apply onerous eligibility criteria 
or costs, may lead to project delays 
and increased cost of doing business. 
Material reduction in dependency on work 
visas through increased hiring of local talent 
including freshers, use of contractors, local 
mobility and training in all major markets.
Use of Location Independent Agile to 
promote systematic collaboration and reduce 
the need for co-location. 
Ongoing monitoring of the global 
environment, working with advisors, 
partners, trade bodies, research institutes 
and governments to promote local talent 
building efforts, specifically in STEM 
initiatives.
Greater brand visibility through event 
sponsorships, community outreach, 
showcasing of investments, innovation 
capabilities and employment generation.
Negative
Business model 
changes in 
customer 
environment (R 
& O)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Intellectual 
Capital
Risk:
Rapidly evolving technologies are 
changing technology consumption 
patterns, creating new classes 
of buyers within the enterprise, 
giving rise to entirely new business 
models and therefore new kinds of 
competitors.
Investments in innovation and differentiated 
capabilities at scale on emerging technologies 
through large scale reskilling, external 
hiring, R&I, solution development and IP 
asset creation leveraging deep contextual 
knowledge across customer specific domain, 
technologies, and processes. 
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
High levels of economic uncertainty 
can result in clients recalibrating 
their IT programs and pulling back 
discretionary spend. 
Increased focus on corporate 
restructuring and mergers and 
acquisitions in some industries is 
driving vendor consolidation and cost 
reduction pressures. 
Inability to quickly adapt could affect 
company’s competitiveness and result 
in loss of customer’s wallet share.
Dedicated service unit AI.Cloud set up 
bringing both cloud and AI capabilities 
together to drive transformations for the 
customer under a ‘Responsible AI’ framework 
providing solutions on leading hyperscaler 
platforms.
Constantly scouring the technology 
landscape using strong partnerships with 
clients, technology providers, academia, and 
start-ups, to spot new trends, technologies, 
and potential threats; invest early in building 
capabilities to mitigate risks and participate in 
the opportunities.
Innovative offerings like operating model 
transformations using TCS Cognix™ to help 
deliver significant cost savings quickly.
Decentralized decision-making, which 
empowers frontline managers to take 
decisions, enable the company to react to 
constantly evolving situations on the ground 
with agility and speed.
Differentiated solutions for organization 
divestiture and integration, catering to M&A 
induced demand for advisory and business 
consolidation related services.
Large portfolio of IP made available on 
hyperscaler clouds to accelerate clients’ 
cloud transformation journeys.
Pace Port co-innovation hubs, Agile 
innovation cloud framework, and extended 
innovation ecosystem including partners 
and start-ups to help clients accelerate their 
product and business model innovation.
Bringing Life to Things™ framework to help 
clients create connected products, launch 
remote monitoring and maintenance 
services.
Focused investments to expand presence in 
clients’ growth and transformation spending, 
including programs like Contextual Masters 
to build industry focused organizational 
capacity. 
Platform-based business models and 
AI-based operating models to disrupt 
conventional labor arbitrage-based 
constructs, and gain market share.
Opportunity:
Increased focus on corporate 
restructuring and mergers and 
acquisitions in some industries is 
creating new opportunities for IT 
separations and integrations.
Interest in technology-enabled 
business model innovation has 
opened opportunities for the 
company to participate in clients’ G&T 
spending.
Pressure to establish competitive 
differentiation is driving enterprises 
to look for partners to speed up and 
scale up their innovation efforts. 
This is also driving greater interest 
in pre-built solutions, products and 
platforms that can accelerate the 
deployment of transformational 
solutions.
Positive
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Currency volatility 
(R)
Impact On: Financial Capital
Volatility in currency exchange 
movements results in transaction and 
translation exposure. TCS’ functional 
currency is the Indian Rupee. 
Appreciation / depreciation of the 
Rupee against any major currency 
could impact the reported revenue 
in Rupee terms, the profitability and 
result in collection losses / gains. It 
can optically mislead revenues and 
earnings, distorting stakeholder 
perceptions of the underlying 
business momentum and profitability.
Currency hedging policy that is aligned with 
market best practices, to limit impact of 
short-term exchange volatility on receivables, 
forecasted revenue and other current assets 
and liabilities.
Hedging strategies guided and monitored 
periodically by the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board.
Management commentary based on constant 
currency to enable a currency-neutral 
understanding of business growth.
Negative / 
Positive
Breach of data 
protection laws (R 
& O)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Social 
Capital, Intellectual Capital 
Risk:
Focus on privacy and protection 
of personal data has increased 
compliance risk. 
Many privacy legislations (GDPR12 in 
Europe & UKI, DPDPA13-India, etc.) 
carry severe consequences for noncompliance or breach. 
Increased adoption of AI models 
dealing with personal data requires 
enhanced safeguards.
Violation of data protection laws 
or security breaches can result 
in substantive liabilities, fines or 
penalties and reputational impact.
Global privacy policy covering all geographies, 
all areas of operations, and stakeholders, 
sets out the privacy principles, operational 
framework and guidance for deployment. 
Unified global privacy framework PrivACE 
adopted across the company to standardize 
privacy practices while catering to local 
requirements. Privacy Information 
Management Systems (ISO 27701:2019) 
adopted and certified. 
Organization structure with the Global 
Privacy Office to strategize, monitor and 
guide deployment of data privacy framework. 
Data Protection Officers appointed as 
required by local regulations and Business 
Privacy Leaders appointed to deploy the 
privacy framework in all geographies, 
functions and business units.
Continuous monitoring and analysis of 
changes to regulatory and legal landscape.
Embedded ‘privacy by design’ and ‘privacy by 
default’ principles in design and development 
of services and products. 
Data protection controls, industry standard 
data masking and encryption technologies, 
and robust risk response mechanisms to 
protect personal data in the TCS ecosystem, 
customer engagements and in case of crossborder transfers. 
Vendors and third parties subjected to risk 
based due diligence and contracted with 
appropriate privacy obligations.
Negative

 General Data Protection Regulation 

 Digital Personal Data Protection Act
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Mandatory trainings, workshops and 
continuous awareness campaigns through 
privacy day events.
Periodic reviews and internal and external 
audits for assurance.
TCS’ data security solutions leverage 
advanced data protection techniques to meet 
diverse global regulatory requirements and 
elevate data privacy for customer’s business
Opportunity:
Enterprises are increasing their 
investments in enhancing Data 
Privacy, given the regulatory 
landscape in every industry, 
presenting a fast-growing business 
opportunity for TCS.
Positive
Cyber Attacks 
(R & O)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Social 
Capital, Intellectual Capital 
Risk:
Risks of cyber-attacks are on the rise 
due to the fast-evolving nature of the 
threat. There is also an increased risk 
due to various pandemic-themed 
cyber threats and attack due to geopolitical drivers.
Security breach could result in 
reputational damage, penalties, 
and legal and financial liabilities, 
in addition to impact on business 
operations.
Best in class enterprise-wide training and 
awareness programs using simulations and 
the enterprise-wide communication and 
collaboration platforms accessed through 
mobile or desktop channels.
Use of advanced AI/ML based tools 
to detect and prevent incursions with 
advanced quarantine capabilities, including 
perimeter security controls with enhanced 
internal vulnerability detection, data leak 
prevention tools, defined and tested incident 
management and recovery process in 
compliance with industry best practices.
Continued reinforcement of stringent 
security policies and procedures (certified 
against ISO 27001) including enhanced 
security measures and awareness building to 
combat phishing attempts and soliciting for 
fraudulent causes or charities through social 
media, text or calls.
Close collaboration with Computer 
Emergency Response Team (CERT) and 
other private cyber intelligence agencies, 
and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber 
threats, to proactively block IPs used by 
threat actors. 
Strict access controls including nonpersistent passwords (OTP) for secure 
access to enterprise applications/ network, 
special handling of privileged administrator 
accounts, rigorous access management on all 
cloud deployments.
Encryption of data, data back-up and 
recovery mechanisms for ensuring business 
continuity.
Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network 
from client network and defined escalation 
mechanisms.
Periodic rigorous testing to validate 
effectiveness of controls through vulnerability 
assessment and penetration testing. Internal 
and external audits, red/purple teaming, 
“breach and attack” simulation.
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
State of the art security operations center 
with automated playbooks. 
The Cyber Security business unit focuses on 
specialized offerings in cyber, information 
security and GRC for TCS’ customers. 
Investments in expanding global network of 
cybersecurity delivery centers, for roundthe-clock cyber defense and local regulatory 
requirements.
Leveraging GenAI/AI to strengthen 
capabilities towards proactive threat 
detection, quicker analysis and response.
Opportunity:
Enterprises are increasing their 
investments in building cyber resilience 
and turning to specialized third parties 
to detect and foil intrusion attempts 
and limit the impact. TCS aims to 
become the preferred cyber security 
partner to its clients.
Positive
Non-compliance 
to complex and 
changing global 
regulations (R & O)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Social 
Capital
Risk: 
As a global organization, the company 
must comply with complex regulatory 
requirements across multiple 
jurisdictions, covering a broad range 
of areas including environmental, 
social and governance themes and 
technology driven regulations.
The fast pace and complex 
nature of changes in the 
regulatory requirements requires 
quick identification and sound 
understanding of these requirements 
along with agility in adapting into 
business operations. Failure to comply 
could result in penalties, reputational 
damage, and criminal prosecution. 
Deployment of a comprehensive global 
compliance management framework that 
enables tracking of regulatory changes across 
various jurisdictions, including new countries 
of operations and functional areas and 
management of compliance risks. 
In-house digitized regulatory compliance 
platform enabling clear accountability, tracking 
of compliance obligations, quarterly regulatory 
compliance declarations and governance to 
ensure long-term business sustainability.
Operationalized regulatory requirements 
through business policies and embedding 
into business processes.
Effective internal controls, automated and 
manual, to comply with regulations, keep a 
check on unlawful and fraudulent activities 
and internal audits to provide compliance 
assurance.
Strong focus on fostering ethical and 
compliance culture; awareness through webbased compliance training courses for all staff 
and regular notifications/alerts on regulatory 
changes communicated to stakeholders. 
Strong governance at board, executive and 
management levels through compliance 
committees and compliance working groups.
Launch of new Governance, Risk and 
Compliance (GRC) offerings for the customer 
CROs and CCOs.
Building Risk and Compliance practice within 
industry verticals, to provide industry specific 
solutions.
Negative
Opportunity:
Enterprises are increasing their 
investments in monitoring the 
regulatory environment and ensuring 
they are compliant to regulations 
in their global operations; TCS can 
provide products and services for 
ensuing compliance.
Positive
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Intellectual 
Property (IP) 
infringement and 
leakage (R)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Intellectual 
Capital
Risk of infringement of IP of third 
parties including suppliers, partners 
and alliance organizations by TCS may 
lead to potential liabilities, increased 
litigation and impact reputation. 
Inadequate protection of TCS’ IP may 
lead to potential loss of ownership 
rights, revenue and value. 
Establishment of an industry leading IP 
management framework (IP 4.0) with 
institutionalized frameworks, processes 
and procedures that address the risk of 
infringement of third-party IP while ensuring 
safeguarding of TCS’ own IP assets. 
Centralized IP and Software Product NFR 
Assessment group that fosters an IP-led 
culture and IP related awareness effectively. 
Well-defined (software) asset lifecycle 
governance framework that incorporates 
policy guidance and risk mitigation guidelines 
on IP, legal, software product engineering and 
business-related risks. 
IP Governance program that ensures that 
there is right access and right use of TCS IP, 
customer IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in 
service and partner engagements.
Other key controls include employee 
confidentiality agreement, training and 
awareness for IP protection and prevention 
of IP contamination and infringement. 
Digitized system to enable strict controls 
around movement of people and information 
across TCS’ product teams and customer 
account teams.
Negative
Litigation risks (R)
Impact On: Financial Capital, Social 
Capital
Litigation risks might arise from 
commercial disputes, alleged violation 
of intellectual property rights/trade 
secret personal data/information 
breach incidents/claims and 
employment related matters. 
The company’s rising profile and scale 
also makes it an attractive target for 
meritless lawsuits. 
Litigations garner negative media 
attention and pose reputation risk, in 
addition to the distraction and legal 
expenses. Adverse rulings can result 
in substantive damages.
Strengthening internal processes and 
controls to adequately ensure compliance 
with contractual obligations, information 
security and compliance with IP policies and 
procedures for protection of intellectual 
property and avoidance of allegations of 
trade secret violations.
Seeking to include arbitration as a dispute 
resolution mechanism as against court trials 
and waiver of jury trial, particularly in the US 
geography.
Improved governance and controls over 
immigration process /increasing localization 
and inclusion of arbitration provisions in 
employment contracts. 
Training and sensitization of business 
managers to spot the risks and escalate 
potential disputes within the organization for 
early mitigation steps.
Team of in-house counsels in all major 
geographies and a network of reputed global 
law firms in countries it operates in.
Robust mechanism to track and respond 
to notices as well as defend the company’s 
position in all claims and litigation.
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Sustainability Risks 
- Climate change 
and Environmental 
aspects (R & O)
Impact On: Natural Capital, Financial 
Capital, Social Capital
Risk:
Extreme weather events due to 
climate change pose a threat 
to human safety and can cause 
disruptions especially in customer 
expectations, business operations and 
supply chain business disruptions. 
With globally distributed operations, 
the company faces physical risks to life 
and property due to extreme weather 
events; transition risks resulting 
from disruptions in the market and 
emerging regulations; disruptions 
to operations due to water scarcity; 
risks of inadvertent non-compliance 
to emerging regulatory requirements 
around circular economy, e-waste 
and solid waste regulations, 
impacting health and safety in local 
communities, business disruption and 
reputational damage. All of these 
could affect TCS’ growth, profitability 
and reputation.
Delivery centers are designed to withstand 
extreme weather events. Business continuity 
plans are tested periodically to ensure 
effectiveness. 
Green buildings, efficient operations, green 
IT, greater use of renewable energy to 
reduce carbon footprint; adoption of newer 
technologies and methods to manage waste 
in line with circular economy principles.
Operational and engineering controls 
to minimize freshwater consumption, 
upgradation of water infrastructure and more 
water efficient systems. 
Water management through sewage 
treatment, recycling of treated water and 
rainwater harvesting. 
Supply chain sustainability through 
responsible sourcing, including leveraging 
sustainability ratings platform.
Year-round associate engagement on 
environmental awareness and sensitizing 
them towards nature and conservation of 
resources.
Initiatives like TCS Circle4Llife™ and 
Sustainathons to come up with technologyled innovations to safeguard TCS’ 
environment.
An environmentally sustainable approach 
through green policies, processes, 
frameworks, and infrastructure, on target to 
achieve net zero carbon emissions. 
Dedicated service unit for major hyperscaler 
providers, helping clients migrate their 
workloads from owned data centers to the 
cloud, thereby reducing the carbon footprint 
associated with those workloads.
Steadily expanding suite of sustainability 
services including designing sustainability 
strategy, sustainability innovation, sustainable 
consumer analytics and sustainability 
dashboards.
Build and promote TCS products and 
solutions such as TCS Clever Energy™, 
Envirozone™ and ESG integration solution, 
to help accelerate customers’ sustainability 
journeys. 
Negative
Opportunity:
As enterprises look to reduce their 
own carbon footprint and cater 
to the growing demand more 
environmentally friendly products 
and services, it opens new business 
opportunities for TCS to provide 
technology-led solutions to help them 
realize their green plans.
Measures taken by TCS to reduce its 
environmental footprint and ensuing 
compliance with evolving regulatory 
requirements, strengthens the brand 
and makes it attractive to enterprises 
looking for an IT partner with a shared 
purpose. It also helps attract and 
retain purpose-driven employees. 
Positive
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Key Risks (R) / 
Opportunity (O)
Impact on the Company
In case of risk or opportunity, approach to adapt 
or mitigate10
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity11
Challenges and 
Opportunities 
with Disruptive 
Technologies (R 
& O)
Impact On: Human Capital, Financial 
Capital, Social Capital, Intellectual Capital
Risk:
Disruptive cutting-edge technologies like 
Quantum Computing, GenAI and large 
language models, and Metaverse could 
impact TCS’ business:
GenAI, large language models 
and Metaverse could lead to legal 
liabilities through plagiarism, deep 
fakes and privacy and copyright 
infringement issues. 
The efficacy of AI models depends 
on the quality of the data they are 
trained on. Accuracy, bias/fairness 
risks could cause reputational damage 
and legal liabilities. 
GenAI technologies could disrupt 
software development and testing 
activities, changing customer 
expectations in the short term. 
Quantum Computing may increase 
exposure to cyberattacks because 
existing security infrastructure may 
prove inadequate.
Ensure controlled use of these technologies 
through pilots/research. 
Restricted access to GenAI technologies on 
company network until proven safe. 
Launched an effective Responsible AI 
framework based on the core principles 
of Safe, Secure, Accountable, Explainable and 
Transparent.
Work with government bodies, regulators 
and academia to build consensus about 
policies and guidelines for use of these 
technologies.
Embark on large-scale skilling of employees 
to prepare for deployment on marketoriented products and services based on 
these technologies.
Participate as a member of industry specific 
large language models consortia.
Proactively invest in research around 
embedding GenAI capabilities into software 
development processes to boost productivity.
Utilize the AI infrastructure and capabilities to 
build and process GenAI applications, while 
also upskilling TCS employees. 
Leverage opportunities to market TCS’ own 
GenAI tools and services as overall adoption 
of the technology increases, focusing on 
‘Assist, Augment and Transform’ use-cases. 
Establish the company as a thought leader in 
GenAI related technology work and actively 
participate in use case creation and pilots. 
Establish active partnerships with leading 
LLM vendors.
Develop niche skills to tap demand created 
for Post Quantum Cryptography services 
as customers seek Quantum safe security 
algorithms. 
Negative
Opportunity:
These technologies also have the 
potential to reimagine existing 
products and services and can also 
open opportunities in the form of new 
solutions using those technologies, 
and new services needing newer 
kinds of skills.
Positive
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Internal Financial Control Systems and their Adequacy
TCS has aligned its systems of internal financial control in 
line with globally accepted risk-based framework issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the 
Treadway Commission. This framework of internal financial 
controls meets the requirement of the Companies Act 2013. The 
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (the 2013 framework) 
is intended to increase transparency and accountability in an 
organization’s process of designing and implementing a system 
of internal control. The framework requires a company to 
identify and analyze risks and manage appropriate responses. 
The company has successfully laid down the framework and 
ensured its effectiveness. 
TCS’ internal controls are commensurate with its size and the 
nature of its operations. These have been designed to provide 
reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing 
reliable financial and operational information, complying with 
applicable statutes, safeguarding assets from unauthorized use, 
executing transactions with proper authorization and ensuring 
compliance with corporate policies. TCS has a well-defined 
delegation of power with authority limits commensurate 
with the responsibilities for approving engagements with all 
stakeholders that commits organizational resources and results 
in creation of assets and liabilities, income and expenditure. 
TCS uses a state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system that connects all parts of the organization, to record data 
for accounting, consolidation and management information 
purposes. It has continued its efforts to align all its processes 
and controls with global best practices.
TCS management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s 
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Regulation 
17 of SEBI LODR Regulations 2015) as of March 31, 2024. 
B S R & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS, have audited the 
financial statements included in this annual report and have 
issued an attestation report on the company’s internal control 
over financial reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies 
Act 2013).
TCS has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Services LLP to 
oversee and carry out an internal audit of its activities. Design 
and operating effectiveness of process controls on financial 
transactions is also audited by an independent in-house internal 
audit team. The audit is based on an internal audit plan, which 
is reviewed each year in consultation with the statutory auditors 
and approved by the audit committee. In line with international 
practice, the conduct of internal audit is oriented towards the 
review of internal controls and risks in the company’s operations 
such as software delivery, accounting and finance, procurement, 
employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes, including 
the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized third party 
consultants and professionals for business specific compliances 
such as quality management, service management, information 
security, etc. The audit committee reviews reports submitted 
by the management and audit reports submitted by internal 
auditors and statutory auditors. Suggestions for improvement 
are considered and the audit committee follows up on corrective 
action. The audit committee also meets TCS’ statutory auditors 
to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy of internal 
control systems and keeps the board of directors informed of its 
major observations periodically.
Based on its evaluation (as defined in section 177 of Companies 
Act 2013 and Regulation 18 of SEBI LODR Regulations 2015), 
TCS’ audit committee has concluded that, as of March 31, 2024, 
the company’s internal financial controls were adequate and 
operating effectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Performance Trend – 10 years 
(` Crore)
 Ind AS 
 Indian GAAP 
FY 2024*
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2021*
FY 2021
FY 2020
FY 2019
FY 2018
FY 2017
FY 2016
FY 2015#
FY 2015
Revenue from operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total revenue from 
operations
240,893
240,893
225,458
191,754
164,177
164,177
156,949
146,463
123,104
117,966
108,646
94,648
94,648
Revenue by geographic 
segments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Americas
127,939
127,939
124,336
100,072
84,278
84,278
82,000
77,562
66,145
66,091
60,011
51,053
51,053
Europe
75,624
75,624
67,436
61,142
52,346
52,346
48,037
43,456
34,155
30,038
29,092
26,730
26,730
India
13,562
13,562
11,271
9,805
8,449
8,449
8,964
8,393
7,921
7,415
6,729
6,108
6,108
Others
23,768
23,768
22,415
20,735
19,104
19,104
17,948
17,052
14,883
14,422
12,814
10,757
10,757
Cost
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee cost
140,131
140,131
127,522
107,554
91,814
91,814
85,952
78,246
66,396
61,621
55,348
48,296
50,924
Other operating cost
36,466
37,424
38,677
31,143
25,817
27,035
28,888
28,711
24,192
24,034
22,621
19,242
19,242
Total cost (excluding interest 
& depreciation)
176,597
177,555
166,199
138,697
117,631
118,849
114,840
106,957
90,588
85,655
77,969
67,538
70,166
Profitability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EBIT
59,311
58,353
54,237
48,453
42,481
41,263
38,580
37,450
30,502
30,324
28,789
25,311
22,683
Profit before tax
63,038
61,997
56,907
51,687
44,978
43,760
42,248
41,563
34,092
34,513
31,840
28,437
25,809
Profit after tax attributable 
to shareholders of the 
Company
46,585
45,908
42,147
38,327
33,388
32,430
32,340
31,472
25,826
26,289
24,270
21,912
19,852
Financial Position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity share capital

Reserves and surplus
90,805
90,127
90,058
88,773
87,014
86,063
83,751
89,071
84,937
86,017
70,875
52,499
50,439
Gross block of property, 
plant and equipment
33,853
33,853
32,344
30,300
28,658
28,658
26,444
24,522
22,720
20,891
19,308
16,624
16,624
Total investments 
31,762
31,762
37,163
30,485
29,373
29,373
26,356
29,330
36,008
41,980
22,822
1,662
1,662
Net current assets
67,558
66,880
66,712
65,959
66,076
65,125
63,177
70,047
63,396
65,804
47,644
30,726
28,495
Earnings per share in `
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EPS - as reported
127.74
125.88
115.19
103.62
89.27
86.71
86.19
83.05
134.19
133.41
123.18
111.87
101.35
EPS - adjusted for Bonus 
Issue
127.74
125.88
115.19
103.62
89.27
86.71
86.19
83.05
67.10
66.71
61.59
55.94
50.68
Headcount (number)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headcount (including 
subsidiaries) as on March 
31st
601,546
601,546
614,795
592,195
488,649
488,649
448,464
424,285
394,998
387,223
353,843
319,656
319,656
Note: The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excludes provision (in FY 2021) and settlement (in FY 2024) of legal claim.
# Excludes the impact of one-time employee reward.
Overview of Funds Invested 
Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income.
(` Crore)
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2023
Current
Non-current
Total funds invested
Investments in mutual funds, 
Government securities and others
31,481
36,897

31,730
37,127
Deposits with banks
10,011
8,223
2,248
1,334
12,259
9,557
Inter-corporate deposits

1,016
Cash and bank balances
2,804
2,124
2,804
2,124
Total
44,466
48,090
2,497
1,734
46,963
49,824
Total invested funds include ₹2,576 crore and ₹2,080 crore for FY 2024 and FY 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS 
Foundation held for specified purposes.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Management Discussion and Analysis
Ratio Analysis – 10 years 
 Ind AS 
 Indian GAAP 
Units FY 2024* FY 2024 FY 2023 FY 2022 FY 2021* FY 2021 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015# FY 2015 
Ratios - Financial Performance
Employee Cost / Total Revenue 
58.2
58.2
56.6
56.1
55.9
55.9
54.8
53.4
53.9
52.2
50.9
51.0
53.8
Other Operating Cost / Total Revenue 
15.1
15.5
17.1
16.2
15.7
16.5
18.4
19.6
19.7
20.4
20.9
20.4
20.3
Total cost (excluding interest & 
depreciation) / Total Revenue 
73.3
73.7
73.7
72.3
71.6
72.4
73.2
73.0
73.6
72.6
71.8
71.4
74.1
EBIT / Total Revenue 
24.6
24.2
24.1
25.3
25.9
25.1
24.6
25.6
24.8
25.7
26.5
26.7
24.0
Profit Before Tax / Total Revenue 
26.2
25.7
25.2
27.0
27.4
26.7
26.9
28.4
27.7
29.3
29.3
30.0
27.3
Tax / Total Revenue 
6.8
6.6
6.5
6.9
7.0
6.8
6.2
6.8
6.7
6.9
6.9
7.2
6.6
Effective Tax Rate - Tax / PBT 
25.8
25.6
25.7
25.6
25.5
25.6
23.2
24.1
24.1
23.6
23.6
23.5
23.7
Profit After Tax / Total Revenue 
19.3
19.1
18.7
20.0
20.3
19.8
20.6
21.5
21.0
22.3
22.3
23.2
21.0
Ratios - Growth
Total Revenue 
6.8
6.8
17.6
16.8
4.6
4.6
7.2
19.0
4.4
8.6
14.8
15.7
15.7
EBIT
9.4
7.6
11.9
14.1
10.1
7.0
3.0
22.8
0.6
5.3
13.7
6.3
(4.7)
Profit After Tax 
10.5
8.9
10.0
14.8
3.2
0.3
2.8
21.9
(1.8)
8.3
22.3
14.3
3.6
Ratios - Balance Sheet
Debt (excluding lease liabilities) - Equity 
Ratio
Times
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Current Ratio
Times
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.6
3.0
2.9
3.3
4.2
4.6
5.5
4.1
3.9
2.4
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in ` terms
Days

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in US$ 
terms
Days

Invested Funds / Capital Employed
47.7
47.3
50.4
57.4
52.6
53.1
47.7
55.2
55.6
55.8
45.8
42.3
43.9
Capital Expenditure / Total Revenue 
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.9
1.9
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.7
1.8
3.1
3.1
Operating Cash Flows / Total Revenue 
18.7
18.4
18.6
20.8
23.6
23.6
20.6
19.5
20.4
21.4
17.6
20.5
20.5
Free Cash Flow / Operating Cash Flow 
Ratio 
94.1
94.0
92.7
92.6
91.9
91.9
90.5
92.5
92.8
92.3
89.7
84.8
84.8
Depreciation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment / Average Gross Block of 
Property, Plant and Equipment
8.4
8.4
9.2
9.1
8.7
8.7
8.6
8.5
9.1
9.5
10.0
11.7
11.7
Ratios - Per Share
EPS - adjusted for Bonus
127.74
125.88
115.19
103.62
89.27
86.71
86.19
83.05
67.10
66.71
61.59
55.94
50.68
Price Earnings Ratio, end of year
Times
30.3
30.8
27.8
36.1
35.6
36.6
21.2
24.1
21.2
18.2
20.4
22.8
25.1
Dividend Per Share
73.00
73.00
115.00
43.00
38.00
38.00
73.00
30.00
50.00
47.00
43.50
79.00
79.00
Dividend Per Share - adjusted for Bonus
73.00
73.00
115.00
43.00
38.00
38.00
73.00
30.00
25.00
23.50
21.75
39.50
39.50
Market Capitalization / Total Revenue 
Times
5.8
5.8
5.2
7.1
7.2
7.2
4.4
5.1
4.4
4.1
4.6
5.3
5.3
Note: The company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excludes provision (in FY 2021) and settlement (in FY 2024) of legal claim.
# Excludes the impact of one-time employee reward.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Awards and Accolades
Awards and Accolades
Featured by FORTUNE Magazine as one of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies based on a survey of more than 
3,700 business executives, boards of directors and financial 
analysts.
Ranked second in the 2024 Global 500 IT services ranking 
by Brand Finance with a brand value of US$19.2 billion, 
improved brand value by US$2 billion in one year, the 
highest value growth across the global IT Services Industry.
Ranked first in Customer Satisfaction in Europe & UK by 
Whitelane Research based on research of over 800 IT 
companies in UK alone, ranked first in Spain for Customer 
Satisfaction in Service Delivery.
Recognized as the most valuable Indian brand by 
Interbrand, topping the 50 Most Valuable Indian 
Brands 2023 list.
Ranked among America’s Best Management 
Consulting Firm in 2024 by Forbes Magazine, based on 
recommendations from 1,100 partners and executives at 
management consulting firms.
Awarded Global Top Employer 2024, one of the 16 
companies worldwide, by the Top Employers Institute in 
32 countries and regions, including Europe, the UK, the 
Middle East, North America, Latin America, and South-East 
Asia.
Won five awards at Microsoft’s 2023 Partner of the Year 
Awards event. In the global category, TCS won the MVP 
Industry Solutions Global Systems Integrator (GSI) award. 
TCS also won three US Partner of the Year awards in the 
categories Global Systems Integrator, Industrials and 
Manufacturing, and Dynamics 365 Sales and Marketing. 
Additionally, TCS was named the Malaysia Customer 
Success Partner of the Year.
Received the Global award Innovator Partner of the 
Year at Dell Tech World 2023, Las Vegas.
Won three Google Cloud Partner of the Year Awards 
2023 in the following categories: Global Talent 
Development Partner of the Year, Industry Solution 
Services Partner of the Year-Financial Services & 
Insurance, and Retail & Consumer Packaged Goods.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Awards and Accolades
Received a Partner of the Year award from Microsoft in 
the category Global Services: MVP Industry Solutions GSI/
Advisory – India.
Received the Amazon Web Services (AWS) GSI Partner of 
the Year 2023 – Global and the AWS GSI Partner of the 
Year 2023 – France awards.
Achieved the 2023-2024 Microsoft Business Applications 
Inner Circle award for the fourth consecutive year.
Positioned at the 387th place in Forbes Global 2000 
Rankings of the largest companies in the world.
Ranked second by Business World in the Most Respected 
Companies survey.
Recognized in the World Economic Forum’s Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion Lighthouse Report 2024 for TCS’ 
leadership program for women.
Named ‘Top Company to work for in India’ by Business 
Today for its employee-friendly policies and positive work 
environment.
Ranked among the Top 10 Sustainable Companies in the 
3rd edition of Sustainable World Conclave organized 
by BusinessWorld.
Recognized at ET NOW Best Organizations for Women 
Conclave 2024 for fostering inclusivity, gender diversity and 
sustainable growth.
Named India’s Most Valuable Brand by Kantar BrandZ 
Top 75 Most Valuable Indian Brand rankings and #1 in the 
category Business Technology and Services Platforms.
Ranked first by Dataquest in the DQ Top 20 Awards 2023, 
on the basis of revenues.
Received the Health & Wellness Award at the Diversity 
in Tech Awards 2023 for championing wellness within 
the workplace to maintain a positive and productive 
environment for all employees.
Awarded the World Intellectual Property Organization’s 
(WIPO) National Award for Enterprises at the National 
Intellectual Property Award 2023.
Won the Platinum award in the Innovators Hall of 
Fame category at the HackerRank Innovator Awards 2023 
in collaboration with ETHRWorld.
Won the Webby People’s Voice Award for the TCS-built 
New York City Marathon Application, for its livestreaming 
feature that advances accessibility, equity, and inclusion in 
professional sports.
Awarded the 2023 Customer Success Partner of the Year 
Award by Microsoft.
Received the International Green Apple Award by the UK 
Houses of Parliament.
Awarded Titan Business Awards & UK Digital Excellence 
Awards for TCS London Marathon.
Recognized with the Avery Dennison IT Supplier 
Excellence Award for Delivery and Performance. 
TCS ranked as a Top Company in LinkedIn’s 2023 Top 
Companies list across eight countries. Ranked #1 in India 
for three years in a row. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
 
Effective corporate governance practices constitute 
the strong foundation on which successful commercial 
enterprises are built to last. The Company’s philosophy on 
corporate governance oversees business strategies and 
ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour 
and fairness to all stakeholders comprising employees, 
investors, customers, regulators, suppliers and the 
society at large. Strong leadership and effective corporate 
governance practices have been the Company’s hallmark 
inherited from the Tata culture and ethos.
 
The Company follows the Tata Group philosophy of building 
sustainable businesses that are rooted in the community 
and demonstrate care for the environment. Being a 
part of the Tata Group, which epitomizes sustainability, 
the Company has inherited a strong legacy of fair and 
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in the 
Tata Code of Conduct (“TCoC”).
 
The Company has adopted the TCoC for its employees 
including the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
and the Executive Directors. In addition, the Company has 
adopted a Code of Conduct for its non-executive directors 
which includes Code of Conduct for Independent Directors 
that suitably incorporates the duties of independent 
directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”).
 
The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been 
further strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence 
Model, the TCS Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices 
(“Insider Trading Code”). The Company has in place an 
Information Security Policy that ensures proper utilization 
of IT resources.
 
The Company is in compliance with the requirements 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 read with Schedule 
V and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 46 of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as 
applicable, with regard to corporate governance.
 
The details of TCS’ board structure and the various 
committees that constitute the governance structure1 of 
the organization are covered in detail in this report.
 
The various material aspects of corporate governance and 
TCS’ approach to them are discussed in the table below:
Corporate Governance Report
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Board effectiveness, 
independence and protection 
of minority Shareholders’ 
interests
Board effectiveness is enhanced by setting a high bar in selecting the right mix of individuals to 
serve on the Board, with the right qualifications, expertise and experience, who can collectively 
serve the best interests of all stakeholders, maintain board and management accountability 
and drive corporate ethics, values and sustainability. Profiles of Board of Directors are available 
at https://www.tcs.com/who-we-are/leadership.
For greater diversity of opinions and perspectives within the Board, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee2 has fostered diversity in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise 
and:
1 GRI 2-9
2 GRI 2-10

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Gender: Two (22.2 percent) of the nine Directors are women.
Nationality: Four nationalities represented – Indian, American, Danish and British.
Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and Academia.
TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be found at https://on.tcs.
com/appointment-BoD. 
Board independence is ensured by having an independent majority, with 5 independent 
directors out of 9 i.e., 55.6 percent. None of the Independent Directors is related to each other, 
or to the non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors is 6 years.
Board effectiveness is further improved by ensuring that none of the directors holds 
directorships in more than seven listed entities, and none of the executive directors serves as 
an independent director on the Boards of more than three listed entities.
TCS’ governance philosophy around minority Shareholders’ interests is guided by the TCoC 
which emphasizes fairness and transparency to all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse 
and independent Board ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
TCS strives to reduce information asymmetry through transparency, extensive disclosures 
and detailed commentary of the demand environment and the state of the business, and 
material developments. The Company provides a variety of channels including a structured 
global investor outreach program, through which minority shareholders can interact with the 
management or the Board.
Shareholders can communicate concerns and grievances to the Company Secretary’s office 
through a well-publicized channel, where complaints are tracked till closure. The Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.
Avoidance of conflict of 
interest3
Chairmanship4 of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate from that of the 
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (“CEO & MD”).
TCoC5 for non-executive directors, and for independent directors, carries explicit clauses 
covering avoidance of conflict of interest. Likewise, it explicitly prohibits any employee, 
including the executive directors, from accepting any position of responsibility, with or without 
remuneration, with any other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. For the 
executive directors, such approval must be obtained from the Board.
Values, Ethics and compliance6
Over the last five decades, TCS has consistently demonstrated very principled conduct and has 
earned its reputation for trust and integrity while building a highly successful global business. 
The Company’s core values are: Integrity, Responsibility, Excellence, Pioneering and Unity.
The TCoC serves as a moral guide and a governing framework for responsible corporate 
citizenship. It sets out guidelines on various topics including respect for human rights, 
prohibition of bribery and corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and 
avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Every employee of the Company is required to sign the TCoC at the time of joining. Web-based 
annual refresher courses are mandated to ensure continued awareness of the Code. Further, 
frequent communications from the leadership, reiterate the importance of the Company values 
and the TCoC.
Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract discussions, and through 
inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and contracts.
Employees also undergo Web-based mandatory training every year on Anti-bribery and ethical 
behaviour. They can raise ethics concerns on Ultimatix – the intranet portal of the Company, 
which are investigated and tracked to closure by the HR department. Employees and other 
stakeholders can also report any non-compliance to the TCoC or to the laws of the land by 
senior executives directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee under the Whistle blower 
Policy without fear of retaliation. Information about these channels is communicated to 
employees as part of the mandatory training modules.
3 GRI 2-15
4 GRI 2-11
5 https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct
6 GRI 2-12

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Compliance to laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as global legislation such as 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act, 2010, etc. are monitored through formal compliance 
procedures led by the Corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely 
monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across the business operations.
Governance, Risk and Compliance are overseen by the Compliance Officer, Chief Risk Officer 
and the Chief Human Resources Officer who report to the Chief Operating Officer and 
Executive Director (“COO & ED”), and CEO & MD respectively. At the apex level, the Audit 
Committee headed by an Independent Director oversees compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery 
and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gift and Hospitality Policy and also to the external regulations. 
Tax Strategy7

to the respective tax authorities, relevant information that is complete and accurate, in a timely 
manner.
TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or tax structuring for the purpose 
of gaining tax advantages. TCS’s tax policy is to optimize the tax cost, avail tax incentives where 
available, while achieving 100 per cent compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the 
tax laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates. Compliance is achieved through a 
robust compliance reporting and monitoring process, with a strong governance on minimizing 
the tax risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion, or the facilitation of tax evasion, 
by itself or by its employees or vendors.
TCS maintains open and collaborative relationships with governments and tax authorities 
worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance clearance from tax authorities on the 
proposed tax treatment of transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.
Board Oversight of 
Sustainability Matters8
TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the belief that it can expand its business by 
creating longer term value for all its stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers 
and local communities, while also valuing the environment. The various sustainability topics 
material to TCS are overseen by the relevant Board committees, as outlined below:
Material Sustainability Topics
Board Committee
Financial reporting, robustness of internal controls and risk 
management systems, auditor remuneration, compliance to 
policies around insider trading, whistle blower, ethics and TCoC.
Audit Committee
Risk management policy and plan, management of foreign 
exchange risks, cyber security risks, data privacy risks and 
intellectual property infringement risks.
Risk Management 
Committee
Recommend composition of Board and its committees, 
appointment/re-appointment of directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel (“KMP”), design executive directors’ remuneration, 
recommend remuneration policy for directors, executive 
team and KMP, evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
Committees and Directors.
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Health and safety at the workplace, shareholder grievances and 
other sustainability initiatives.
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
Community initiatives and Corporate Social Responsibility, 
including compliances.
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Commttee
Succession planning
TCS’ philosophy of empowering employees, its industry-leading talent retention, and a 
decentralized organization structure that devolves executive decision-making across all 
business units have resulted in a large and deep bench of leadership talent that enables robust 
succession planning and continuity and consistency in strategy. Succession planning for the top 
two leadership positions in each business unit is reviewed by senior management. Additionally, 
heads of business units carry out succession planning for key functions within their units.
Succession planning at senior management levels is reviewed by the Board. Business or unit 
heads are invited to present on specific topics at Board meetings from time to time, offering an 
opportunity to the directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.
7 GRI 207-1, GRI 207-2, GRI 207-3. TCS Tax Strategy link: https://on.tcs.com/TCS-Tax-Strategy
8 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14, GRI 2-18, GRI 2-20

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Material Topic
TCS’ Approach
Building sustainable and 
responsible supply chain

protecting and safeguarding human rights, treating all persons with respect and dignity while 
safeguarding their rights, the abolition of forced and compulsory labor, child labor in the 
supply chain and strong corporate governance practices including anti-corruption and bribery 
and promoting fair business practices across the supply chain. TCoC also requires its suppliers 
to protect the environment and make conscious use of scarce natural resources in their 
business processes and at the same time highlighting the importance of health and safety in its 
workplace and expects the supplier to comply with sustainable business practices in letter and 
spirit in turn for its employees.
The Company supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. It works with its suppliers to ensure that they 
too are fully aligned with these principles.
II. 
Board of Directors
 
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has nine 
Directors of which seven (i.e. 77.8 percent) are 
Non-Executive Directors (including two women 
director). The Company has five (i.e. 55.6 percent) 
Independent Directors.
 
 
The composition of the Board is in conformity with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with 
Sections 149 and 152 of the Act.
 
ii. 
None of the Directors on the Board:
 
 
holds directorships in more than ten public 
companies;
 
 
serves as Director or as Independent Directors in 
more than seven listed entities; and
 
 
who are the Executive Directors serve as 
independent directors in more than three listed 
entities.
 
 
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions 
in other public companies as on March 31, 2024, have 
been made by the Directors. None of the Directors 
are related to other Directors and the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company except N Chandrasekaran 
and N G Subramaniam.
 
iii. 
Independent Directors are non-executive directors as 
defined under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act along with 
rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation 25(8) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties. Based on the declarations received from the 
Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has 
confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence 
as mentioned under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and that they are independent of the management. 
Further, the Independent Directors have included 
their names in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the Act read 
with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
 
iv. 
Five Board Meetings were held during the year under 
review and the gap between the two meetings did 
not exceed one hundred and twenty days. The said 
meetings were held on: April 12, 2023; July 12, 2023; 
October 11, 2023; January 11, 2024, and 
March 11, 2024. The necessary quorum was present 
for all the meetings.
 
The names and categories of the directors on 
the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings 
held during the year under review and at the last 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other 
listed entities in which the Director is a director 
and the number of Directorships and Committee 
Chairmanships/Memberships held by them in other 
public limited companies as on March 31, 2024, are 
given herein below. Other directorships do not include 
directorships of private limited companies, 
foreign companies and companies registered under 
Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them is a 
member of more than ten committees or chairman 
of more than five committees across all the public 
limited companies in which he/she is a director. For 
the purpose of determination of limit of the Board 
Committees, chairpersonship and membership of 
the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee has been considered as per Regulation 
26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Name of the Director 
and DIN
Category
Number 
of Board 
Meetings 
attended 
during the 
FY 2024
Whether 
attended 
last AGM 
held on 
June 29, 

Number of 
Directorships in other 
Public Companies
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
Public Companies
Directorship in other listed entity 
(Category of Directorship)
Chairman
Member
Chairman
Member
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman)
DIN 00121863
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. Tata Steel Limited (N) 
2. Tata Motors Limited (N)
3. Tata Consumer Products 
Limited (N) 
4. The Tata Power Company 
Limited (N)
5. The Indian Hotels Company 
Limited (N)
6. Tata Chemicals Limited (N)
K Krithivasan*
(CEO & MD)
DIN 10106739
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Yes
N G Subramaniam 
(COO & ED)
DIN 07006215
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Yes

1. Tata Elxsi Limited (N)
2. Tata Communications Limited 
(N)
3. Tejas Networks Limited (N)
Rajesh Gopinathan**
(Erstwhile CEO & MD)
DIN 06365813
Non-Independent, 
Executive

Not 
Applicable
O P Bhatt
DIN 00548091
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. Hindustan Unilever Limited (I)
2. Tata Motors Limited (I)
3. Aadhar Housing Finance 
Limited (Debt Listed) (I)
Aarthi Subramanian
DIN 07121802
Non-Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

Tata Capital Limited (Debt Listed) 
(N)
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla 
DIN 03611983
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes
Hanne Sorensen^
DIN 08035439
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

Tata Motors Limited (I)
Keki Mistry^
DIN 00008886
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes

1. HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited (N)
2. HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited [(N) Debt 
Listed]
3. HDFC Bank Limited (N)
4. The Great Eastern Shipping 
Company Limited (I)
5. Torrent Power Limited (I) 
[ceased w.e.f. March 31, 2024]
Al-Noor Ramji^^
DIN 00230865
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Not 
Applicable

Tata Motors Limited (I)
Don Callahan^^^
DIN 08326836
Independent, 
Non-Executive

Yes
Category of directorship held: 
(N) Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director, (I) Independent, Non-Executive Director, (ED) Executive Director

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
 
*appointed as CEO & MD w.e.f. June 1, 2023
 
 
**ceased to be CEO & MD w.e.f. June 1, 2023
 
 
^re-appointed as Independent Director for a 
second term w.e.f. December 18, 2023
 
 
^^appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. 
October 12, 2023
 
 
^^^ceased to be Director w.e.f. January 10, 2024 upon 
completion of his term as Independent Director.
 
 
Video-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate 
Directors travelling/residing abroad or at other 
locations to participate in the meetings.
 
vi. 
During FY 2024, information as mentioned in Part A of 
Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been 
placed before the Board for its consideration.
 
vii. During FY 2024, one meeting of the Independent 
Directors was held on March 11, 2024. The 
Independent Directors, inter alia, reviewed the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company, 
taking into account the views of Executive Directors 
and Non-Executive Directors.
 
viii. The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports 
of all laws applicable to the Company.
 
ix. 
Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on March 31, 2024, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of equity 
shares
N Chandrasekaran
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
1,77,056
Aarthi Subramanian
Non-Independent, Non-Executive
5,600
K Krithivasan
Non-Independent, Executive
11,232
N G Subramaniam
Non-Independent, Executive
1,97,760
Keki Mistry*
Independent, Non-Executive
4,150
 
 
*includes shares held jointly with his relative
 
 
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.
 
The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies fundamental for the effective functioning of the 
Company which are currently available with the Board:
 
 
Global Business
Understanding, of global business dynamics, across various geographical markets, 
industry verticals and regulatory jurisdictions.
Strategy and Planning
Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in guiding and 
leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
Governance
Experience in developing governance practices, serving the best interests of all 
stakeholders, maintaining board and management accountability, building long - 
term effective stakeholder engagements and driving corporate ethics and values.
 
 
The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a Director of the Company is dependent on whether the person possesses the 
requisite skill sets identified by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven leader in running a business that 
is relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business. Being an 
IT service provider, the Company’s business runs across different industry verticals, geographical markets and is global 
in nature. The Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to the 
industries/fields from where they come.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
III. Committees of the Board
 
There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2024, details of which are as follows:
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Audit 
Committee
Committee is constituted in line 
with the provisions of Regulation 
18 of SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 177 of the Act.
The terms of reference of the 
committee, inter alia, includes:
Oversight of financial reporting 
process.
Reviewing with the 
management, the annual 
financial statements and 
auditors’ report thereon before 
submission to the Board for 
approval.
Approval or any subsequent 
modification of transactions 
of the Company with related 
parties.
Evaluation of internal financial 
controls and risk management 
systems.
Recommendation for 
appointment, remuneration 
and terms of appointment of 
auditors of the Company.
Approve policies in relation 
to the implementation of the 
Insider Trading Code and to 
supervise implementation of the 
same.
To consider matters with respect 
to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption Policy and Gift 
and Hospitality Policy.
Name
Category
Four meetings of the 
Audit Committee were 
held during the year 
under review and the gap 
between two meetings did 
not exceed one hundred 
and twenty days.
Committee invites such 
of the executives as it 
considers appropriate, 
representatives of the 
statutory auditors and 
internal auditors, to be 
present at its meetings.
The Company Secretary 
acts as the Secretary to the 
Audit Committee.
Pradeep Manohar 
Gaitonde, Company 
Secretary is the Compliance 
Officer to ensure 
compliance and effective 
implementation of the 
Insider Trading Code.
Quarterly Reports are 
sent to the members of 
the Audit Committee on 
matters relating to the 
Insider Trading Code.
The previous AGM of the 
Company was held on June 
29, 2023 and was attended 
by Keki Mistry, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
Keki Mistry 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
O P Bhatt
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Aarthi 
Subramanian
NonIndependent, 
Non- Executive
Dr Pradeep 
Kumar Khosla
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Hanne Sorensen
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Al-Noor Ramji* 
Independent, 
Non-Execuitve
Don Callahan**
Independent, 
Non-Executive
*appointed as a member of the 
Committee w.e.f. January 11, 
2024.
**ceased to be a member of 
the Committee consequent 
to the completion of his term 
as Independent Director w.e.f. 
January 10, 2024.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(“NRC”)9
Committee is constituted in line 
with the provisions of Regulation 19 
of SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 178 of the Act.
The terms of reference, inter alia, 
include:
Recommend to the Board the 
setup and composition of the 
Board and its Committees.
Recommend to the Board the 
appointment/re-appointment 
of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel.
Support the Board and 
Independent Directors in 
evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors.
Recommend to the Board 
the Remuneration Policy for 
Directors, executive team or 
Key Managerial Personnel as 
well as the rest of employees.
Oversee familiarization 
programs for Directors.
Name
Category
Three NRC meetings were 
held during the year under 
review.
The Company does not 
have any Employee Stock 
Option Scheme.
Details of Performance 
Evaluation Criteria and 
Remuneration Policy are 
provided at serial no. III (iii) 
below.
The previous AGM of the 
Company was held on June 
29, 2023 and was attended 
by O P Bhatt, Chairman of 
the NRC.
O P Bhatt 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
N Chandrasekaran NonIndependent, 
Non-Executive
Hanne Sorensen
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”)
Committee is constituted in line 
with the provisions of Regulation 20 
of SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 178 of the Act.
The terms of reference, inter alia, 
include:
Consider and resolve the 
grievances of security holders.
Consider and approve issue of 
share certificates, transfer and 
transmission of securities, etc. 
Review activities with regard 
to the Health Safety and 
Sustainability initiatives of the 
Company.
Name
Category
Two meetings of the SRC 
were held during the year 
under review.
Details of Investor 
complaints and Compliance 
Officer are provided at 
serial no. III (ii) below.
The previous AGM of the 
Company was held on 
June 29, 2023 and was 
attended by 
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla, 
Chairman of the SRC.
Dr Pradeep 
Kumar Khosla 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
K Krithivasan*
NonIndependent, 
Executive
Rajesh 
Gopinathan**
NonIndependent, 
Executive
Keki Mistry
Independent, 
Non-Executive
*appointed as a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
**ceased to be a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
9 GRI 2-20

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
(“CSR”) 
Committee
Committee is constituted in line with 
the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Act.
The terms of reference, inter alia, 
include:
Formulate and recommend 
to the Board, a CSR Policy 
indicating the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as 
specified in Schedule VII to the 
Act.
Recommend the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred on 
the activities mentioned in the 
CSR Policy.
Monitor the CSR Policy.
Institute a transparent 
monitoring mechanism for 
implementation of the CSR 
projects or programs or 
activities.
Name
Category
Three meetings of the 
CSR Committee were held 
during the year under 
review. 
Four Board meetings 
of TCS Foundation, a 
Section 8 company which 
was incorporated with 
sole objective of carrying 
on CSR activities of the 
Company were held during 
the year.
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman)
NonIndependent, 
Non-Executive
O P Bhatt
Independent, 
Non-Executive
N G Subramaniam NonIndependent, 
Executive
Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(“RMC”)
Committee is constituted in line with 
the provisions of Regulation 21 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference, inter alia, 
include:
Formulate, monitor and 
review risk management 
policy and plan, inter alia, 
covering investment of 
surplus funds, management of 
foreign exchange risks, cyber 
security risks, data privacy 
risks and intellectual property 
infringements risks.
Approve addition/deletion 
of banks from time to time 
for carrying out Treasury 
transactions and delegate the 
said power to such person as 
may deem fit.
Name
Category
Four meetings of the RMC 
were held during the year 
under review. 
Fortnightly reports on 
management of foreign 
exchange risks are made 
available to the members 
of the RMC.
Keki Mistry 
(Chairman)
Independent, 
Non-Executive
K Krithivasan*
NonIndependent, 
Executive
N G Subramaniam NonIndependent, 
Executive
Rajesh 
Gopinathan**
NonIndependent, 
Executive
Al-Noor Ramji^
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Don Callahan^^ 
Independent, 
Non-Executive
Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial 
Officer
*appointed as a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
**ceased to be a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
^appointed as a member 
of the Committee w.e.f. 
January 11, 2024.
^^ceased to be a member of 
the Committee consequent 
to the completion of his term 
as Independent Director w.e.f. 
January 10, 2024.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Name of the 
Committee
Extract of terms of reference
Category and composition
Other details
Executive 
Committee10
Detailed review of the following 
matters which form part of terms 
of Executive Committee, were 
presented to the Board:
Business and strategy review;
Long-term financial projections 
and cash flows;
Capital and revenue budgets 
and capital expenditure 
programmes;
Acquisitions, divestments 
and business restructuring 
proposals;
Senior management succession 
planning;
Any other item as may be 
decided by the Board.
Name
Category
The said matters were discussed 
in various Board meetings held 
during the year under review in 
the presence of the Executive 
Committee Members with the 
intent to avail expertise of all 
Board members.
N Chandrasekaran 
(Chairman)
NonIndependent, 
Non-Executive
K Krithivasan*
NonIndependent, 
Non-Executive
Rajesh 
Gopinathan**
NonIndependent, 
Executive
*appointed as a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
**ceased to be a member of the 
committee w.e.f. June 1, 2023.
The terms of reference of these committees are available on the website (https://on.tcs.com/Terms-ReferenceCommittees) 
ii. 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee-other details
 
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer: 
 
 
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, 
 
 
Mumbai 400 021, India
 
 
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
 
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during FY 2024 are as follows:
Opening as on April 1, 2023
Received during the year
Resolved during the year
Closing as on 
March 31, 2024

iii. Nomination and Remuneration Committee-other details
 
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent Directors:
 
The performance evaluation criteria for independent directors is determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. An 
indicative list of factors on which evaluation was carried out includes participation and contribution by a director, commitment, effective 
deployment of knowledge and expertise, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality and independence of behaviour and judgement.
 
Remuneration Policy11: 
 
Remuneration policy of the Company is designed to create a high-performance culture. It enables the Company to attract, retain 
and motivate employees to achieve results. The business model promotes customer centricity and requires employee mobility to 
address project needs.
 
The remuneration policy supports such mobility through pay models that are compliant to local regulations. In each country 
where the Company operates, the remuneration structure is tailored to the regulations, practices and benchmarks prevalent in 
the IT industry.
 
The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances (fixed component) and commission 
(variable component) to its Managing Director and the Executive Directors. Annual increments are recommended by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee within the salary scale approved by the Board and Members and are effective April 1, each year.
10 GRI 2-13
11 GRI 2-19, GRI 2-20

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, decides the commission 
payable to the Managing Director and the Executive Directors out of the profits for the financial year and within the ceilings 
prescribed under the Act, based on the Board evaluation process considering the criteria such as the performance of the 
Company as well as that of the Managing Director and each Executive Director.
 
The Company pays sitting fees of ₹30,000 per meeting to its Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and 
meetings of committees of the Board. The Company also pays commission to the Non-Executive Directors within the ceiling of 
1 percent of the net profits of the Company as computed under the applicable provisions of the Act, with the approval of the 
Members. The said commission is decided each year by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors based on the Board evaluation process, 
considering criteria such as their attendance and contribution at the Board and Committee meetings, as well as the time spent on 
operational matters other than at meetings. The Company also reimburses the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors 
for attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy is available on https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
iv. 
Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2024
 
Non-Executive Directors
(` lakh)
Name
Commission
Sitting Fees
N Chandrasekaran, Chairman@
3.3
O P Bhatt
285.0
4.8
Aarthi Subramanian@@
2.7
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
260.0
3.6
Hanne Sorensen
260.0
3.9
Keki Mistry
285.0
4.8
Al-Noor Ramji*
100.0
0.9
Don Callahan**
250.0
2.7
Total
1,440.0
26.7
 
 
@ As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company.
 
 
@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non- Executive 
Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company.
 
 
*Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. October 12, 2023
 
 
**Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. January 10, 2024 upon completion of his term as Independent Director.
 
Managing Director and Executive Director
(` lakh)
Name of Director
Salary
Benefits, 
Perquisites and 
Allowances
Commission
ESPS*
K Krithivasan**
(CEO & MD)
(appointed w.e.f. June 1, 2023)
127.5
308.4
2,100.0
N G Subramaniam
(COO & ED)
172.5
345.7
2,100.0
Rajesh Gopinathan 
(Erstwhile CEO & MD)
(ceased w.e.f. June 1, 2023)
33.6
76.8
 
 
*Employee Stock Purchase Scheme
 
 
**The remuneration includes compensation for the full year, i.e. as Global Head of Banking, Financial Services and Insurance 
(BFSI) for April 1, 2023 to May 31, 2023 and as CEO & MD from June 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024. 
 
 
Services of the Executive Directors may be terminated by either party, giving the other party six months’ notice or the 
Company paying six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no separate provision for payment of severance pay.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Number of committee meetings held and attendance records
Name of the Committee 
Audit Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
No. of meetings held 

Date of meetings 
April 12, 2023;
July 12, 2023;
October 11, 2023 
and
January 11, 2024
April 12, 2023;
October 11, 2023; 
and March 11, 

July 20, 2023 and
January 18, 2024
May 25, 2023;
September 8, 2023;
and January 12 
2024@
April 18, 2023;
July 18, 2023; 
October 16, 2023 
and
January 18, 2024
No. of meetings attended
Name of Member
N Chandrasekaran

K Krithivasan*

N G Subramaniam

Rajesh Gopinathan**

O P Bhatt

Aarthi Subramanian

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

Hanne Sorensen

Keki Mistry

Al-Noor Ramji^
Don Callahan^^


Samir Seksaria

Whether quorum was 
present for all the 
meetings
The necessary quorum was present for all the above committee meetings
 
@ TCS Foundation, a Section 8 company incorporated in 2015 with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities of the Company, 
has held four meetings during the FY 2024
 
*appointed as member of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee and Executive Committee 
w.e.f. June 1, 2023
 
** ceased to member of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee and Executive Committee 
w.e.f. June 1, 2023
 
^ appointed as member of Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee w.e.f. January 11, 2024
 
^^ ceased to member of Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee w.e.f. January 10, 2024 upon completion of his term 
as Independent Director.
vi. Particulars of senior management of Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Name of Senior Management Personnel
Category
Shankar Narayanan
Banking Financial Services and Insurance
Krishnan Ramanujam
Consumer Business Group
V Rajanna
Technology, Software and Services
Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial Officer
Milind Lakkad
Chief Human Resources Officer
Madhav Anchan
General Counsel Legal
Dr. Harrick Vin
Chief Technology Officer
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
 
S Sukanya, was appointed as Chief Information Officer on October 11, 2023, and ceased on March 5, 2024.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
IV. General Body Meetings
 
General Meeting
 
 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):
Financial Year
Date
Time
Venue

June 10, 2021
3.30 p.m.
Meeting conducted through VC / OAVM pursuant to the MCA 
Circular

June 9, 2022

June 29, 2023
 
 
Extraordinary General Meeting:
 
 
 
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2024.
 
 
Special resolution:
 
 
 
Special resolution for change of place of keeping and inspection of the registers and Annual Returns of the Company 
was passed at the AGM held in 2022 and no special resolution was passed in the AGMs held in 2021 and 2023.
 
ii. 
Details of special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted the postal ballot exercise, details of 
the voting pattern and procedure of postal ballot:
 
 
The Company had sought the approval of the shareholders by way of a Special Resolution through notice of postal ballot 
dated October 11, 2023 for:
 
 
buyback of its equity shares;
 
 
appointment of Mr. Al-Noor Ramji (DIN 00230865) as a Non-executive Independent Director for a term of five years
 
 
re-appointment of Ms. Hanne Birgite Breinbjerg Sorensen (DIN 08035439) as a Non-executive Independent Director for 
a second consecutive term of five years; and
 
 
re-appointment of Mr. Keki Minoo Mistry (DIN 00008886) as a Non-executive Independent Director for a second 
consecutive term of five years
 
 
All the aforesaid resolutions were duly passed and the results of which were announced on November 15, 2023.
 
 
P. N. Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327) of Parikh & Associates, Practising Company Secretaries, was appointed as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot process by voting through electronic means only (remote e-voting) in a fair and 
transparent manner. Details of the voting pattern are provided below:
Resolution passed through postal 
ballot
Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
Invalid votes
Number of 
members 
voted
Number of 
valid Votes 
cast (Shares)
Percentage of 
total number 
of valid votes 
cast
Number 
members 
voted
Number 
of valid 
votes cast 
(Shares)
Percentage of 
total number 
of valid votes 
cast
Total number of 
members whose 
votes were 
declared invalid
Total 
number of 
invalid votes 
cast (Shares)
Buyback of its equity shares
16,150
319,61,27,268
99.78

70,10,926
0.22
Appointment of Mr. Al-Noor Ramji 
(DIN 00230865) as a Non-executive 
Independent Director for a term of 
five years
16,029
320,27,45,957
99.95

14,50,499
0.05
Re-appointment of 
Ms. Hanne Birgite Breinbjerg 
Sorensen (DIN 08035439) as a 
Non-executive Independent 
Director for a second consecutive 
term of five years
16,001
317,23,76,322
99.01

3,18,09,865
0.99

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Resolution passed through postal 
ballot
Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
Invalid votes
Number of 
members 
voted
Number of 
valid Votes 
cast (Shares)
Percentage of 
total number 
of valid votes 
cast
Number 
members 
voted
Number 
of valid 
votes cast 
(Shares)
Percentage of 
total number 
of valid votes 
cast
Total number of 
members whose 
votes were 
declared invalid
Total 
number of 
invalid votes 
cast (Shares)
Re-appointment of 
Mr. Keki Minoo Mistry 
(DIN 00008886) as a 
Non-executive Independent 
Director for a second consecutive 
term of five years
16,089
318,61,63,326
99.44

1,80,30,571
0.56
 
 
Procedure for postal ballot: The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act, read with the Rules framed thereunder and read with the General Circular nos. 14/2020 
dated April 8, 2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020 and subsequent circulars issued in this regard, the latest being 9/2023 
dated September 25, 2023, respectively issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
 
iii. 
Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
 
 
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through 
postal ballot.
A certificate has been received from Parikh & Associates, Practising Company Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
VI. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022) has been appointed as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory Auditors’ fees, on consolidated basis for FY 2024 is given below:
 
Payment of Statutory Auditor’s fees
(` lakh)
Particulars
Amount
Services as statutory auditors (including quarterly audits)
1,120.4
Tax audit
70.0
Services for tax matters
24.1
Other matters
403.0
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
89.6
Total
1,707.1
VII. Other Disclosures
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for 
details/policy
Related party 
transactions (“RPT”)
Regulation 23 
of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and 
as defined under 
the Act
During the year all RPTs entered by the Company were 
in the ordinary course of business and in respect of 
transactions with related parties under Section 2(76) of 
the Act, are at arm’s length basis and were approved by 
the members of Audit Committee including Independent 
Directors. The Company had sought the approval of 
shareholders at the 28th AGM held on June 29, 2023 
for material RPT as per Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. Similarly, the Company intends seeking 
approval of its shareholders for the existing and material 
related party transactions for FY 2025 at its ensuing 
annual general meeting to be held on May 31, 2024.
The Board’s approved policy for related party 
transactions is uploaded on the website of the Company.
https://on.tcs.com/
RPT

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for 
details/policy
Details of noncompliance by the 
Company, penalty, 
strictures imposed on the 
Company by the stock 
exchange, or Securities 
and Exchange Board of 
India or any statutory 
authority on any matter 
related to capital markets 
during the last three 
financial years
Schedule V (C) 
10(b) to the SEBI 
Listing Regulations
NIL
Whistle Blower Policy 
and Vigil Mechanism
Regulation 22 
of SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The Company has this Policy and has established the 
necessary vigil mechanism for directors and employees 
to report concerns about unethical behaviour. No person 
has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. The said policy has been uploaded on the 
website of the Company.
https://on.tcs.com/
WhistleBP 
Discretionary 
requirements
Schedule II Part E 
of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The auditors’ report on financial statements of the 
Company are unmodified.
Internal auditors of the Company make quarterly 
presentations to the Audit Committee on their reports.
Subsidiary Companies
Regulation 24 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and the investments made 
by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
The minutes of the Board meetings along with a report 
on significant developments of the unlisted subsidiary 
companies are periodically placed before the Board of 
Directors of the Company.
The Company does not have any material unlisted 
subsidiary company.
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material 
subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website.
https://on.tcs.com/
Subsidiary 
Policy on Determination 
of Materiality for 
Disclosures
Regulation 30 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
Policy on Determination of Materiality for Disclosures
https://on.tcs.com/
Material
Policy on Archival 
and Preservation of 
Documents
Regulations 30 
and 9 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations
The Company has adopted this policy.
https://on.tcs.com/
Archival
Reconciliation of Share 
Capital Audit Report
Regulation 76 
of the SEBI 
(Depositories 
and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018 
and SEBI Circular 
No. D&CC/FITTC/
Cir-16/2002
A practising Company Secretary carried out a share 
capital audit to reconcile the total admitted equity share 
capital with the National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and the Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (“CDSL”) and the total issued and listed equity 
share capital. The audit report confirms that the total 
issued/paid-up capital is in agreement with the total 
number of shares in physical form and the total number 
of dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
https://on.tcs.com/
Reports-Policies

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
Particulars
Statutes
Details
Website link for 
details/policy
Code of Conduct
Regulation 17 of 
the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The members of the Board and Senior Management 
Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code 
of Conduct applicable to them during the year ended 
March 31, 2024. A certificate by the CEO and MD, on the 
compliance declarations received from the members of 
the Board and Senior Management forms part of this 
report.
https://www.tcs.com/
tata-code-of-conduct
Dividend Distribution 
Policy
Regulation 43A 
of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
A regular annual dividend generally consists of three 
interim dividends after each of the first three quarters of 
the fiscal year, topped up with a final dividend after the 
fourth quarter.
In addition, every second or third year, the accumulated 
surplus cash has been returned to shareholders through 
a special dividend.
https://on.tcs.com/
Dividend 
Terms of Appointment of 
Independent Directors
Regulation 46 
of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and 
Section 149 read 
with Schedule IV 
to the Act
Terms and conditions of appointment/re-appointment 
of Independent Directors are available on the Company’s 
website.
https://on.tcs.com/
ApptID 
Familiarization Program
Regulation 25(7) 
and 46 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations
Details of familiarization program imparted to 
Independent Directors are available on the Company’s 
website.
https://on.tcs.com/
familiarization-programme
Disclosure under the 
Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2018
Section 134 of 
the Act, read 
with Rule 8 of 
the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 

The details have been disclosed in the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report forming part of 
the Integrated Annual Report.
Disclosure of certain type 
of agreements binding 
listed entities
Schedule III, Para 
A, Clause 5A of 
Listing Regulations 
There are no agreement impacting management or 
control of the Company or imposing any restriction or 
create any liability upon the Company.
VIII. Means of Communication
 
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include, 
The Indian Express, Financial Express, Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. 
The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com. 
 
Statutory notices are published in The Free Press Journal, Business Standard, The Economic Times and Navshakti. The Company 
also issues press releases from time to time. Financial Results, Statutory Notices, Press Releases and Presentations made to the 
institutional investors/analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are submitted to the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”) as well as uploaded on the Company’s website. Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/
investor-relations. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.
IX. General shareholder information
 
Annual General Meeting for FY 2024
Date
May 31, 2024
Time
3:00 p.m. (IST)
Venue
Meeting is being conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to the MCA General Circulars dated May 5, 2020, read with 
general circulars dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, the latest being September 25, 2023. For details, please refer to 
the Notice of this AGM.
 
 
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, 
particulars of Director seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice of this AGM.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
ii. 
Financial Calendar
 
 
Year ending 
March 31
 
 
AGM in 
May
 
iii. Dividend Payment 
The final dividend, if approved, shall be paid/credited on Tuesday, June 4, 2024
 
iv. 
Date of Book Closure/ Record Date 
As mentioned in the Notice of this AGM
 
Listing on Stock Exchanges 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
 
 
 
 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 
 
 
 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
 
 
 
 
BSE Limited
 
 
 
 
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001
 
vi. Stock Codes/Symbol
 
 
NSE 
TCS 
 
 
BSE 
532540
 
 
Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
 
vii. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) 
L22210MH1995PLC084781 
of the Company
 
viii. Market Price Data
 
 
High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in FY 2024 on NSE and BSE:
Month
NSE
BSE
High (`)
Low (`)
Total number of 
equity shares traded
High (`)
Low (`)
Total number of equity 
shares traded
Apr-2023
 3,263.4 
 3,089.6 
 4,38,24,242 
 3,263.2 
 3,088.7 
 19,57,145 
May-2023
 3,328.9
 3,179.9 
 3,66,16,015 
 3,329.0 
 3,180.3 
 8,71,528 
Jun-2023
 3,324.0
 3,174.9
 3,83,61,975 
 3,323.3 
 3,175.3 
 19,84,292 
Jul-2023
 3,514.7 
 3,259.9
 4,76,58,115 
 3,512.0 
 3,260.2 
 17,30,994 
Aug-2023
 3,484.1
 3,356.8 
 3,59,20,566 
 3,483.8 
 3,357.1 
 22,22,209 
Sep-2023
 3,606.2 
 3,379.2 
 3,84,42,941 
 3,606.6 
 3,379.2 
 16,32,903 
Oct-2023
 3,638.4
 3,336.8 
 3,98,18,106 
 3,637.3
 3,337.8 
 33,52,847 
Nov-2023
 3,530.2
 3,330.7 
 3,63,81,184 
 3,529.9 
 3,331.7 
 22,09,366 
Dec-2023
 3,861.0
 3,511.7 
 4,55,72,195 
 3,860.1 
 3,509.6 
 23,01,605 
Jan-2024
 3,943.1
 3,666.8 
 4,82,46,534 
 3,942.3 
 3,667.0 
 50,68,946 
Feb-2024 
 4,149.5 
 3,854.2 
 4,34,10,829 
 4,149.2 
 3,851.5 
 27,05,972 
Mar-2024
 4,219.3 
 3,840.9 
5,75,14,817
 4,217.5 
 3,837.5 
 2,75,18,584 
 
ix. 
Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the BSE Sensex 

Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
TCS Share price and BSE Sensex Movement
TCS Share Price
BSE Sensex
Base 100 = Monday, April 3, 2023

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
Registrar and Transfer Agents
 
 
Name and Address 
: Link Intime India Private Limited* (Link Intime)
 
 
 
 
 C-101, Embassy 247,
 
 
 
 
 L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West)
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai - 400 083
 
 
 
 
 Telephone: +91-8108118484
 
 
 
 
 E-mail: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
 
 
 
 
 Website: www.linkintime.co.in
 
 
*Erstwhile TSR Consultants Private Limited, merged with Link Intime India Private Limited w.e.f. December 22, 2023.
 
 
Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank 
holidays).
 
xi. 
Places for acceptance of documents
 
 
For the convenience of the shareholders, documents will also be accepted at the following branches of Link Intime between 
10.00 am and 5.00 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
Place
Name and Address
Phone/Email
Mumbai
Link Intime India Private Limited 
Building 17/19, Office No. 415, Rex Chambers, 
Ballard Estate, Walchand Hirachand Marg, 
Fort, Mumbai - 400 001
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
Bengaluru
Link Intime India Private Limited
C/o. Mr. D. Nagendra Rao
“Vaghdevi” 543/A, 7th Main 3rd Cross, 
Hanumanthnagar, Bengaluru - 560 019
Tel: +91 80 26509004
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
Kolkata
Link Intime India Private Limited
Vaishno Chamber, 5th Floor, Flat Nos. 502 & 503, 
6, Brabourne Road, Kolkata - 700 001
Tel: +91 33 40049728 / 33 40731698
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
New Delhi
Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC,
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi – 110 058
Tel: +91 11 41410592 / 93 / 94
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
Jamshedpur
Link Intime India Private Limited
Qtr. No. L-4/5, Main Road, Bistupur
(Beside Chappan - Bhog Sweet Shop)
Jamshedpur - 831 001
Tel: +91 657 2426937 
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
Ahmedabad
Link Intime India Private Limited
5th Floor, 506 to 508, Amarnath Business Centre-1 (ABC-1)
Beside Gala Business Centre, Nr. St. Xavier’s College Corner
Off. C.G. Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad - 380 006
Tel: +91 79 26465179 
Email: csg-unit@linkintime.co.in
 
xii. Share Transfer System
 
 
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, transfer, transmission and 
transposition of securities shall be effected only in dematerialized form.
 
 
Pursuant to SEBI Circular dated January 25, 2022, the listed companies shall issue the securities in dematerialized form only, 
for processing any service requests from shareholders viz., issue of duplicate share certificates, endorsement, transmission, 
transposition, etc. After processing the service request, a letter of confirmation will be issued to the shareholders and 
shall be valid for a period of 120 days, within which the shareholder shall make a request to the Depository Participant for 
dematerializing those shares. If the shareholders fail to submit the dematerialisation request within 120 days, then the 
Company shall credit those shares in the Suspense Escrow Demat account held by the Company. Shareholders can claim 
these shares transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat account on submission of necessary documentation.
 
 
The Directors and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are authorized by the 
Board severally to approve transfers, which are noted at subsequent Board Meetings.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
xiii. Shareholding as on March 31, 2024
 
 
Distribution of equity shareholding
Number of shares
Holding
Percentage to 
capital
Number of 
accounts
Percentage to total 
accounts
1-100
4,02,12,894
 1.11 
20,29,252
 87.96 
101-500
4,72,10,723
 1.30 
2,32,513
 10.08 
501-1000
1,75,66,487
 0.49 
24,665
 1.07 
1001-5000
3,16,70,314
 0.88 
16,427
 0.71 
5001-10000
1,06,38,162
 0.29 
1,505
 0.07 
10001-20000
1,07,13,577
 0.30 

 0.03 
20001-30000
80,78,996
 0.22 

 0.01 
30001-40000
63,89,912
 0.18 

 0.01 
40001- 50000
61,71,738
 0.17 

 0.01 
50001 -100000
2,72,65,199
 0.75 

 0.02 
100001-above
3,41,21,69,516
 94.31 

 0.03 
TOTAL
3,61,80,87,518
100.00
23,06,997
100.00
 
 
Categories of equity shareholding
 
 
 
Category
Category wise equity 
Shareholding
Percentage 
of holding 
Promoter
2,59,54,99,419
71.74
Other Entities of Promoter Group
10,59,209
0.03
Mutual Funds
14,65,91,425
4.05
Banks, Financial Institutions, State and Central Government
3,48,298
0.01
Insurance Companies
21,62,81,096
5.97
Foreign InstitutionaI Investors
45,94,66,997
12.70
NRIs, OBCs, Foreign Nationals
78,38,559
0.22
Corporate Bodies, Trusts
2,89,88,390
0.80
Indian Public and Others
15,87,11,398
4.39
Alternate Investment Fund
26,53,126
0.07
IEPF Account
6,49,601
0.02
Total
3,61,80,87,518
100.00
 
 
Top ten equity shareholders of the Company
Sr. No. Name of the shareholders*
Number of equity shares held
Percentage of holding

Tata Sons Private Limited
 2,59,54,99,419 
71.74

Life Insurance Corporation of India
 17,59,75,338 
4.86

SBI Mutual Fund
 4,24,95,223 
1.17

National Pension Scheme (NPS) Trust Account
 1,80,51,876 
0.50

Government of Singapore
 1,77,21,561 
0.49

Invesco Developing Markets Fund
 1,58,78,926 
0.44

Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
 1,55,40,306 
0.43

Vanguard total International Stock Index Fund
 1,41,77,875 
0.39

ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund
 1,41,05,437 
0.39

UTI Mutual Fund
 1,40,40,960 
0.39
 
 
 
*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the shareholder.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
 
 
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the Company 
representing 99.98 percent of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialized as on March 31, 2024. 
Under the Depository System, the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is 
INE467B01029.
 
xv. Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
 
 
The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and hence, as on 
March 31, 2024, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments.
 
xvi. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
 
 
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Master Circular dated 
July 11, 2023 is not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please 
refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
 
xvii. Loans and advances
 
 
The Company has not given any loans and advances to firms/Companies in which directors are interested.
 
xviii. Equity shares in the suspense account
 
 
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of 
equity shares in the suspense account are as follows:
Particulars
Number of shareholders
Number of equity shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in 
the suspense account lying as on April 1, 2023

Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares 
from suspense account during the year
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense 
account during the year
Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority as per Section 124 of the Act
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in 
the suspense account lying as on March 31, 2024

The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2024, shall remain frozen till the 
rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
 
xix. Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
 
 
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period of seven years from the date of 
transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF.
 
 
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has remained unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more from the 
date of transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority. The said requirement does not apply 
to shares in respect of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of the 
shares.
 
 
In the interest of the shareholders, the Company sends periodical reminders to the shareholders to claim their dividends 
in order to avoid transfer of dividends/shares to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard are also published in the newspapers 
and the details of unclaimed dividends and shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, are 
uploaded on the Company’s website https://iepfinvestorinfo.tcsapps.com/#/home.
 
 
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during FY 2024 are as follows:
Financial year
Amount of unclaimed dividend transferred 
Number of shares transferred
2015-16
2,60,32,185
41,294
2016-17
2,16,37,364
15,191
TOTAL
4,76,69,549
56,485

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
 
 
The Members who have a claim on above dividends and/or shares are requested to follow the below process:
 
 
Submit self-attested copies of documents provided in IEPF 5 helpkit, which is available on IEPF website (www.iepf.gov.in) 
to the Company / Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA).
 
 
After verification of the aforesaid documents submitted, Company will issue an entitlement letter.
 
 
File Form IEPF-5 on IEPF website and send self-attested copies of IEPF-5 form along with the acknowledgement (SRN), 
Indemnity bond and entitlement letter to Company.
 
 
On receipt of the physical documents mentioned above, Company will submit e-Verification report, for further 
processing by the IEPF Authority.
 
 
Members are requested to note that no claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/shares transferred to IEPF.
 
 
The following table give information relating to various outstanding dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by 
the shareholders from the Company’s RTA:
Financial Year
Date of declaration
Last date for claiming unpaid dividend
2016-17
June 16, 2017
July 16, 2024
2017-18
July 13, 2017
August 13, 2024
October 12, 2017
November 12, 2024
January 11, 2018
February 10, 2025
June 15, 2018
July 15, 2025
2018-19
July 10, 2018
August 9, 2025
October 11, 2018
November 10, 2025
January 10, 2019
February 9, 2026
June 13, 2019
July 13, 2026
2019-20
July 9, 2019
August 8, 2026
October 10, 2019
November 9, 2026
January 17, 2020
February 16, 2027
March 10, 2020
April 9, 2027
June 11, 2020
July 11, 2027
2020-21
July 9, 2020
August 8, 2027
October 7, 2020
November 6, 2027
January 8, 2021
February 7, 2028
June 10, 2021
July 10, 2028
2021-22
July 8, 2021
August 7, 2028
October 8, 2021
November 7, 2028
January 12, 2022 
February 11, 2029
June 9, 2022
July 9, 2029
2022-23
July 8, 2022
August 7, 2029
October 10, 2022
November 9, 2029
January 9, 2023
February 8, 2030
June 29, 2023
July 29, 2030
 2023-24
July 12, 2023
August 11, 2030
October 11, 2023
November 10, 2030
January 11, 2024
February 10, 2031
 
xx. Plant locations
 
 
In view of the nature of the Company’s business viz. Information Technology (IT) Services and IT Enabled Services, the 
Company operates from various offices in India and abroad. The Company has a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim 
Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.
 
xxi. Address for correspondence
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
 
 
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India
 
 
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
 
 
Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investor.relations@tcs.com
 
 
For queries on IEPF related matters: iepf.assist@tcs.com
 
 
Website: www.tcs.com 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF 
CONDUCT
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees, including the Managing Director and Executive 
Directors. 
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. These Codes are 
available on the Company’s website.
I confirm that the Company has, in respect of the year ended March 31, 2024, received from the Senior Management Team of the 
Company and the Members of the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
K. Krithivasan 
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director
DIN: 10106739
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
To the Members of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of 
Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
(‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2024, as 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and 
(t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of 
Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance 
is the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the review of procedures and implementation 
thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance 
with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit 
nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, and the representations 
made by the Directors and the management and considering 
the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India , we certify that 
the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the 
year ended on March 31, 2024.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries 
P. N. Parikh 
FCS: 327 CP: 1228 
UDIN: F000327F000095235
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai, 
Date: 12.04.2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate
Governance
Report
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited having CIN L22210MH1995PLC084781 and having registered office at 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by the Company for the purpose 
of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers We 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on March 31, 
2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment in Company *
N Chandrasekaran 
00121863
September 6, 2007
K Krithivasan
10106739
June 1, 2023
N Ganapathy Subramaniam 
07006215
February 21, 2017
O P Bhatt
00548091
April 2, 2012
Aarthi Subramanian
07121802
March 12, 2015
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Khosla
03611983
January 11, 2018
Hanne Sorensen
08035439
December 18, 2018
Keki Mistry
00008886
December 18, 2018
Al-Noor Ramji
08326836
October 12, 2023
*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner 
FCS No. 327 CP No. 1228 
UDIN: F000327F000095246
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai Date: 12.04.2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility
Empowering Access to Opportunity
TCS, recognizes the power of technology, innovation, and 
human ingenuity in building a more equitable world. TCS 
believes that everyone is born with equal potential, but 
not equal opportunity and it is the vision of TCS to 
empower people and communities to build self-reliance 
while promoting the core values of fairness, equity, and 
respect for human rights.
We live in interesting times with technologies like Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence dominating the global conversation, the 
human impact of natural disasters calling attention to the 
need for climate adaptation, and a worldwide call to 
action for inclusive growth as economies transition post 
the pandemic.
Overview

Inadequate adult literacy is a problem preventing India 
from achieving its full economic potential. Majority of the 
non-literate population comprises women, and from 
marginalized communities. TCS’ Literacy as a Service (LaaS) 
program addresses non-literacy among adults and creates 
awareness of key citizen entitlements. It serves the dual 
purpose of improving the literacy rate in the country and 
promoting social inclusion and ﬁnancial stability for 
marginalized communities. LaaS’ innovative teaching 
method leverages technology, the theory of cognition, and 
the laws of perception. The program’s creative means of 
delivery uses animated graphic patterns for easy visual and 
auditory learning.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
This past year TCS has made signiﬁcant progress in its 
mission, empowering over 7 million people through its 
CSR programs including big bets aimed at people with 
highest need, in communities where resources are low, 
while using its core strengths to make a meaningful impact. 
This resulted in upward socio-economic mobility for 
797,749 people, building equitable and inclusive pathways 
for 405,775 women, 455,692 youth and 547,311 from 
marginalized groups.
This was achieved by scaling TCS’ high impact programs 
across India and 43 countries around the world, against 
four strategic themes (and eight focus areas): provide a 
21st century education for all (Education and Research, 
Literacy to Livelihood), help citizens equitably access good 
jobs of tomorrow (Employment through Skilling, Digital 
Entrepreneurship), enable delivery of world class front-line 
services in poorest districts (Healthcare, Digital Inclusion), 
and accelerate the just transition to a green economy 
(Water, Climate and Sustainability). No one organization 
can do this alone, and TCS through its purpose ecosystem 
engaged the key stakeholders to support the needs of the 
local communities.
TCS served 20,342 marginalized people through its 
Literacy as a Service program, empowering them through 
functional, ﬁnancial, and digital literacy. Gaining 
self-conﬁdence, dignity, and access to key citizen 
entitlements, they traversed a path from a vicious cycle of 
poverty, bonded labor, and harsh work conditions to 
charting their own course of savings and livelihood.
The onus of building Responsible AI rests not with today’s 
companies, workforce, and policy makers, but more so lies 
in the hands of the next generation of innovators. 
Empowering 6,209 teachers to inculcate computational 
thinking, Ignite my Future program of TCS prepared 
312,966 students across ﬁve continents with foundational 
skills for the age of AI, while the goIT digital innovation 
program inspired 118,016 students across 42 countries 
apply 21st Century Skills and latest technologies like AI, IoT, 
and App Design to solve real-world problems in their 
community. The most gratifying aspect is 53% of these 
students are girls and 76% from underrepresented 
minorities.
Gaining access to quality jobs in today’s digital economy can 
often be a challenge, even for those educated from leading 
institutions. TCS imparted marketable skills, credentials, and 
valuable certiﬁcations to 23,297 rural youth from 24 states 
and union territories across India, coaching and mentoring 
them for industry readiness through its Youth Employment 
Program. Nearly half of these are women, improving their 
income opportunities and participation in economic growth.
Across 1,735 villages in rural India, digital entrepreneurs 
from the TCS program ‘BridgeIT’, are earning their livelihood 
while providing much needed last-mile services to 312,175 
beneﬁciaries such as access to citizen entitlements, 
banking, ﬁnancial services, insurance, telehealth, telelaw, 
logistics, ecommerce and more. Expanding the program to 
44 districts, a new cohort of 1,400 women entrepreneurs 
from socially marginalized background are gearing up to be 
catalysts to strengthen the rural economy.
In a transformational year for community service, HOPE 
(Hours of Purpose by Employees), a TCS program saw 
volunteers contribute over 6.7 million hours to support 
the poor with basic necessities, to create better health 
outcomes for those who need help, to preserve and protect 
the environment, to empower better education, 
employment, entrepreneurship, and livelihoods for the 
marginalized. TCSers also built capacity and capability for 
over 50 social sector organizations through skills-based 
volunteering, providing in-kind digital, advisory and 
technology consulting services.
TCS jointly served needy communities around the world 
through 138 purpose partnerships, working alongside other 
Tata Group companies, its customers, and like-minded 
organizations through its Business with Purpose program. 
TCS harnessed the wisdom of over 1,800 cross-sector 
leaders through 11 Digital Empowers thought leadership 
forums, using their collective wisdom to help advance 
advocacy and policy eﬀorts globally.
Literacy as a Service (LaaS)
Beneﬁciaries: 19,761 | Preraks: 581
Vulnerable & marginalized: 99%

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
The high unemployment rate among the youth, particularly 
from marginalized communities is a signiﬁcant issue in 
modern India. Their employment prospects and their ability 
to participate in the digital economy are impacted by 
challenges such as limited opportunities, deﬁcient 
communication skills, and a lack of technical expertise.
TCS’ Youth Employment Program (YEP) empowers the 
youth with its “Teach, Coach, Mentor and Place” model. 
Industry leaders and subject matter experts collaborate to 
deliver comprehensive training on business 
communication, aptitude, computer programming, and 
domain-speciﬁc skills.
The program facilitates a seamless transition between the 
academic and professional worlds and elevates the 
beneﬁciaries’ social and economic standing. By providing 
career guidance, mentoring, and oﬀering access to 
market-relevant certiﬁcations and real-time projects, YEP 
equips the youth to navigate opportunities in the Indian job 
market.
Since its inception, the program has: 
Provided youth from marginalized groups across the 
country access to opportunities. 
Enhanced the socio-economic status of more than 
1,76,000 youth and their families. 
 Created speciﬁc career paths for the youth in 
Hospitality, Banking, Retail, and IT domains, to name a 
few. 
Facilitated anytime and anywhere learning through 
the one-stop YEP portal. 
Advanced the reputation of, and provided visibility to, 
YEP partner institutions. 
Enabled continuous availability of a highly skilled 
talent pool for the industry.
The program currently runs in 24 states and union 
territories of India. In FY 2024, 19,900 students were 
trained, of which 49% were women and from groups 
qualiﬁed for aﬃrmative action programs. Over 2,845 
students have gained employment in the IT/ITES and other 
domains. 
Youth Employment Program (YEP)
Literacy as a Service (LaaS) Case Study
Lighting up the Musahar Community with literacy
LaaS’ modules include functional literacy (50-55 hours), 
ﬁnancial literacy (5-7 hours), and awareness of key citizen 
entitlements (3-4 hours). These are currently available in 
nine Indian, and three foreign languages.
Democratizing the literacy solution, TCS’ Each one 
Empowers one portal provides TCS, Tata Group employees, 
and their families, the opportunity to empower non-literates such as security guards, domestic workers, and 
gardeners in their local community.
Since its inception, LaaS has successfully paved the way to 
self-reliance for over 2.43 million learners and more than 
201,600 facilitators through literacy. In FY 2024, LaaS 
empowered 20,342 learners (~99% women) with functional literacy, ﬁnancial literacy, and awareness of key citizen 
entitlements.
The program’s transformational impact oﬀers beneﬁciaries 
a path to ﬁnancial independence, raises their self-esteem, 
and provides them the opportunity to be role models for 
their children. In addition, the program has also given 
neo-literates better access to government beneﬁt 
schemes, and ﬁnancial systems.
Tara Devi, from Bhaipurkhurd village, in Mirzapur, Uttar 
Pradesh, used to work at a brick kiln, for 14-16 hours 
every day, along with her husband and children. The 
owner of the brick kiln exploited them and paid them 
inadequately. Lacking basic education, Tara and her 
family were unable to accurately calculate their wages 
and were dependent on middlemen. TCS’ Literacy as a 
Service (LaaS), in partnership with Manav Sansadhan 
Evam Mahila Vikas Sansthan (MSEMVS), started a 
literacy program in Bhaipurkhurd. Tara Devi was 
rescued by MSEMVS, and she joined the TCS’ literacy 
center at Bhaipurkhurd.
Attending TCS’ LaaS sessions every day, Tara Devi 
learned how to read basic Hindi and do simple 
arithmetic. MSEMVS assisted Tara in setting up a small 
general shop. She is now able to operate her 
microenterprise independently and personally maintain 
her book of accounts. Realizing the transformative 
power of education, Tara Devi inspires her children to 
take their education seriously. 
I had never thought that I would be 
able to leave the work at the brick kiln 
and open my own shop. Thanks to TCS’ 
Literacy as a Service, I learned basic 
arithmetic, and today I can manage the 
accounts of my shop.  Now I send my 
children to school every day.
Tara Devi
Bhaipurkhurd village, Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh
Trained: 19,900 | Under Training: 3,397 | Placed: 2,845
Vulnerable & marginalized: 49%

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
Puja Bhairu Kamble, is from Solapur. After her 
graduation, she embarked on her dream to join the 
police force. However, she failed the examinations and 
was left disappointed, her dreams shattered.
Her father who was a security guard at Tata Consultancy 
Services, informed her about a program designed to 
assist recent graduates ﬁnd employment. Puja was 
advised to send her resume to see if she qualiﬁed for the 
training. Soon after, she received an invitation to the 
"Youth Employment Programme" (YEP) orientation. 
There she met other enthusiastic young individuals who 
shared similar career dreams.
YEP helped enhance her analytical, numerical, and 
communication skills. Throughout the training, she also 
acquired fundamental skills such as time management, 
work-life balance, and corporate etiquette. She learned 
the signiﬁcance of creating an outstanding resume and 
received guidance on conduct during interviews.
Upon completing the training, she appeared for the TCS 
recruitment drive and was selected for a position at 
TCS's Vikhroli oﬃce. Her feeling of joy was 
immeasurable. Puja dedicates her success to YEP and all 
the TCSers who helped her. 
Youth Employment Program (YEP) Case Study
A major achievement of BridgeIT in FY 2024 was the 
agreement between TCS and Humana People to People India 
(HPPI), to empower 1,400 rural youth from socially and 
economically marginalized communities across 14 districts of 
Bihar, Jharkhand, and Rajasthan, by building their capacities 
to become digital entrepreneurs.
A TCS Entrepreneur Network (TEN) was created to encourage 
collaborative knowledge sharing and revenue generation 
ideas among existing and future entrepreneurs. The TCS team 
connects regularly with the entrepreneurs for this purpose. 
Training modules were created and conducted on topics such 
as Cyber Security, Cyber Crime, DTP, and Canva.
An in-house guidebook to learn and adopt new ways to 
generate income has also been developed. Additionally, 
Digital Entrepreneur Learning Intervention (DELI), the TCS 
in-house training curriculum, and content for future training 
programs has also been created.
In FY 2024, 348 active digital entrepreneurs (of which 41% 
comprise women and 77% hail from marginalized 
communities) served 1,735 villages, oﬀering services to 
312,175 beneﬁciaries like document generation, government 
scheme enrollment, online form ﬁlling, and banking 
transactions, among others. 
Launched a decade ago, TCS’ BridgeIT program addresses the 
socio-economic divide in India by creating rural digital 
entrepreneurs. These digipreneurs use information technology 
to help citizens in local communities avail government 
entitlements by providing ﬁnancial and digital services in 
education, employment, and adult literacy, enabling social 
integration.
Operating in 29 districts across 10 states, the program focuses 
on addressing social inequities, particularly among women and 
marginalized communities. By creating entrepreneurs in rural 
India, BridgeIT solves for rural India, in rural India.
BridgeIT
BridegIT Case Study
Shashi Kujur -Digital Mukhiya
Shashi Kujur is today a beacon of empowerment in 
Kura. While Shashi like many women from her 
community married young, she was diﬀerent. Driven by 
the ambition to achieve something signiﬁcant in life, 
she delayed starting a family with her husband. In 2020, 
on hearing news of TCS's BridgeIT, Shashi decided to 
enroll in the program. Equipped with training, a laptop, 
and determination, she transformed a room in her 
home into a digital service hub.
Initially oﬀering a few services, Shashi gradually 
expanded to oﬀer 24 services to her community, 
including PAN cards and ﬁnancial services. With time, 
Shashi gained recognition in her village. Her success 
propelled her to run for Mukhiya in Jharkhand, earning 
the moniker of "Digital Mukhiya."
Shashi's journey exempliﬁes the enabling and 
transformative potential of women's agency and 
entrepreneurship in shaping and uplifting their 
communities. 
I started with apprehensions, but 
with determination, I became the 
‘Digital Mukhiya’ of my village. Proud 
to empower women, bring change, 
and make an impact through 
entrepreneurship.
Shashi Kujur
Kura village, Latehar, Jharkhand
Entrepreneurs: 348 
Beneﬁciaries served by enterpreneures: 312,175
Vulnerable & marginalized: 88%

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
Around the world, there are more jobs in STEM and the 
computer sciences than there are qualiﬁed candidates to ﬁll 
them. There is also a lack of understanding of what goes into 
becoming a STEM or computer science professional. The 
National Science Foundation predicts that 80% of the jobs that 
will be created in the next decade will require skills in 
mathematics and science. TCS’ ﬂagship digital innovation and 
career readiness program, go Innovate Together (goIT), 
prepares students with the skills and capabilities required to 
pursue careers of the future.
Through engaging design workshops and custom mentorship 
experiences, goIT helps students by challenging stereotypes 
and inspiring these future leaders to pursue the careers of 
tomorrow. goIT helps students develop core skills in 
partnerships with school districts, using a four-pronged model 
which includes, in-person or virtual volunteer-driven 
engagements, round the year goIT online connects, monthly 
challenges centered around the UN SDGs and mentorship by 
industry professionals from TCS. The impact metrics from 
participating students reinforce the success of the program, 
with 89% aspiring to pursue STEM careers post-program, 96% 
believing they can -create positive community impact, and 99% 
learning new skills from TCS mentor volunteers. goIT’s 
transformative journey helps shape the future of STEM 
education. Since its launch in 2009, goIT has beneﬁtted 
263,282 students with a growing presence across 42 countries. 
FY 2024 was the most impactful year for goIT, beneﬁtting 
121,648 students and educators around the world. 
go Innovate Together (goIT) 
Statistics reveal that women represent fewer than 28% 
of the world’s technology workforce, a fact echoed by 
even lower numbers in the U.S. That is why goIT’s 
achievement in one middle school in Honolulu, Hawaii, 
sends such a strong message. goIT’s ﬁrst-ever classroom 
program in Hawaii, with a group that comprised 75% 
girls, featured the highest ratio of attending girls ever 
achieved in a goIT co-ed oﬀering. TCS partnered with St. 
Andrews schools to bring goIT to 4th and 6th grade 
students, who spent three months working their way
go Innovate Together (goIT) Case Study
Record-breaking female participation in Honolulu
through the goIT Artiﬁcial Intelligence curriculum. The 
engagement gave them hands-on experience with 
machine learning and classiﬁcation modelling. It also 
helped them employ creativity and problem-solving skills 
to create potential sustainable solutions to problems in 
their community. Demonstrating how computer science 
topics are increasingly gaining appeal with girls gives TCS 
hope for the future of the industry. 
The world is evolving at a tremendous pace, and now more 
than ever, young people require 21st-century skills, such as 
computational thinking, to keep abreast with the changing 
times, create avenues for new jobs, and explore possibilities 
for economic equity. Emerging technologies like GenAI 
highlight how core school subjects alone will no longer be 
enough.
Computational thinking is a foundational skill that prepares 
students to think, solve, and create. TCS’ Ignite My Future 
(IMF) is a pioneering endeavor to empower educators 
through a transdisciplinary approach that integrates 
computational thinking into core subjects like mathematics, 
science, art, and social studies. Oﬀered for free, IMF enables 
educators to teach students equitably. The program 
highlights the importance of computational thinking as a 
critical skill in a changing world with complex problems that 
require thoughtful solutions. Through TCS volunteering and 
customer engagements with program partners, IMF brings 
career pathways to life by creating awareness for students on 
potential careers. IMF consistently engages with educators 
and students through the Learning Leaders network, family 
STEM nights, and special student projects.
Ignite My Future (IMF)
Students: 118,016 | Educators: 3,632
Vulnerable & marginalized: 76%
Students: 312,966 | Educators: 6,209
Vulnerable & marginalized: 64%

Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE)
Volunteer Testimonial
Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE) is a wonderful 
initiative to celebrate the eﬀorts of people who work 
selﬂessly to bring about positive change in society. 
Personally, participating and contributing hours to HOPE 
initiatives allowed me to be a part of the community and 
provided me with a sense of belonging. Going to NGOs 
and working with the team members helped unite my 
teams of young volunteers who want to build a better 
society and put a smile on the faces of beneﬁciaries. I get 
Volunteering has a new home at TCS. Hours of Purpose by 
Employees (HOPE) is a transformational movement that allows 
TCS’ growing, highly skilled, and diverse personnel to 
champion purpose projects and give back to society.
The program transformed volunteering from an occasional 
activity into a strategic force for positive change. Through 
HOPE, employees can choose activities in diﬀerent localities, 
along with corporate-driven programs, primarily focused on 
the 17 UN SDGs. All HOPE projects are guided, monitored, and 
driven by ‘Purpose Councils’ comprising leaders from regions 
and business units who believe in the Tata Ethos of giving back 
to society. TCS believes that HOPE’s strong, purpose-driven 
ecosystem is vital to create change that will stand the test of 
time and generate positive impact.
TCS: #1 company for volunteers
Through HOPE, TCS became the leading company for 
volunteers. For the ﬁrst time, multiple volunteering events 
(over 250) were organized under one platform, allowing 
182,000 volunteers to choose what they volunteer for, how 
they volunteer (DIY/virtual/in-person), and who they volunteer 
with (friends and family).
And miles to go…
In FY 2024, HOPE resulted in a collective impact of 6.72 million 
volunteer hours, primarily addressing six SDGs. The platform 
reached 11.17 PCVH (Per Capita Volunteering Hours) and 
positively impacted 5.41 million lives. As more TCSers and 
their friends and family join hands with HOPE, striving to be 
purposeful stewards of their communities, this movement is 
set to continuously grow and touch more lives. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
This year, IMF introduced a new oﬀering: Behind the Scenes, 
a virtual ﬁeld trip model that empowers teachers with 
high-quality video and activity content to inspire students as 
they become today’s problem solvers in tomorrow’s world. 
The ﬁrst-ever Behind the Scenes content is designed in 
partnership with a fellow Tata Group company, Jaguar Land 
Rover, through Jaguar TCS Racing partnership via the ABB FIA 
Formula E World Championship.
Since its inception in 2017, IMF has positively impacted over 
2.32 million teachers and students around the world. In
FY 2024, IMF beneﬁted 312,966 students and 6,209 
educators across ANZ, APAC, India, LATAM, North America, 
and UK & Ireland.
Ignite My Future At Track is a novel program within the 
IMF universe of resources that oﬀers teachers and 
students the opportunity to peep behind the scenes and 
discover how STEM careers can be fully compatible with 
someone’s passion for something, like motor sports. 
Thanks to cross-sector eﬀorts, TCS gave IMF alumni and 
IMF Learning Leaders the opportunity to witness ﬁrsthand 
how the Jaguar TCS Racing Team uses problem-solving 
strategies in computational thinking to ensure a successful 
race. Students interest in STEM careers grew by 40%. 75% 
felt more likely to use computational thinking strategies in 
real-life situations, and 100% of teachers in the immediate 
community showed newly acquired interest in the 
program. It is said that “it takes a village to raise a child” 
and Ignite My Future’s eﬀorts make sure no child is left 
behind. 
Ignite My Future (IMF) Case Study - Igniting Futures at full
speed: cross-sector eﬀorts that inspire generations
Since I was introduced to Ignite My Future by my 
teacher in the classroom, I felt there was a 
diﬀerence in my day to day living. Computational 
Thinking was something I could use in my daily 
problems too. Then, when I realized I was going 
to be given the chance to be part of Ignite My 
Future At Track, I discovered how interesting the 
world of STEM is and how it’s not just what you 
see in a book. Not only am I a big fan of race cars 
now, but I am also sure I am going to pursue a 
career in STEM now. 
Tomás F
Middle School Student, IMF alumni, México 
Employee Volunteering Program

Through Tech4HOPE, TCS provides pro-bono advisory and 
technology consulting services to organizations and 
non-proﬁts that seek to create socio-environmental impact. 
Tech4HOPE
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
a feeling of satisfaction every time I look back at the work I 
did, to serve my community and my family. I strongly 
encourage young people to volunteer and help others, 
because just as volunteering helps others, it also helps us 
discover skills we didn't know we had, such as 
communication, team building, and interpersonal skills. 
I got the opportunity to volunteer for 
FlyHigh. Witnessing the enthusiasm and 
growth in these young minds was truly 
inspiring. The experience not only enriched 
their lives but also taught me the profound 
impact a small eﬀort can have on shaping 
the future. I encourage others to join in, to 
create positive change through education 
and mentorship. 
Ayush Shrivastava 
CIU/Indore
MSR Murthy
TCS Hyderabad
Prachi Nawale has been actively volunteering for the 
SGNP Adivasi Child Education Program to support 
underprivileged children by providing educational 
sponsorship. Her mission is to take education to 
marginalized children from indigenous communities and 
help them make the transition to a brighter future. 
Prachi and her team at TCS collaborated with 
DoorStepSchool, an NGO, to identify children and 
provide academic tuition, sponsored by a TCS Purpose 
Partner, a global energy organization, to provide primary 
and secondary education to children from indigenous 
regions or Adivasi Padas at the Sanjay Gandhi National 
Park, Mumbai. The team also celebrates festivals and 
organizes various activities for these children like 
donation drives with clothes, stationery, and toys, as 
well as food distribution events. Prachi ﬁnds it 
heartening that in the 10 years of their association with 
this group, many of the children have completed their 
secondary and higher secondary education. She is 
particularly proud of one of the students, who is now 
pursuing her higher studies with support from Prachi 
and the team. A dedicated volunteer and a shining ray of 
HOPE, Prachi believes that sharing is caring. 
Hours of Purpose by Employees (HOPE)
Volunteering Story
I believe in the philosophy of “sharing 
is caring.” Early in life, my parents 
cultivated in me the value of 
generosity. This encouraged me to 
work for societal well-being. I am 
blessed to have a wonderful family 
who always supports me and 
participates in HOPE activities along 
with me. Giving back to society gives 
me immense joy and ﬁlls me with a 
sense of fulﬁllment. I feel blessed and 
grateful for all that I have. 
Prachi Nawale,
TCS Mumbai
I used to be shy, now I can speak English”. These words 
were said by a young adult who attended FlyHigh, a soft 
skills development volunteering program for 
underprivileged students in a government school in 
Indore. TCS employees went to the school for 15 days to 
take classes and help the students gain conﬁdence in 
speaking English. During the valedictory ceremony, 
students spoke about their experience of attending 
FlyHigh and shared how the program helped them 
overcome their shyness and fear of speaking in English. 

Digital Empowers is a collaborative platform of impact that 
brings renowned industry experts, business leaders, 
government oﬃcials, non-proﬁt organizations, and academia 
together from across the world. Being a thought leadership 
initiative, the ingenuity and resources of the private sector, the 
innovative capacity of technologists, and the collective assets 
of governments, non-proﬁt organizations, and civil society are 
brought together to create social impact.
The platform fosters innovation, drives societal growth, and 
unlocks the potential of the digital age, allowing community 
leaders to co-create and co-innovate solutions for social 
impact.
Through the 11 dynamic convenings and forums, attended by 
around 1877 visionary leaders over the last year, TCS has 
driven impactful conversations and collaborations on pressing 
issues including, bridging the digital divide, informing national 
policies in India to promote education and entrepreneurship, 
and equipping adults and the youth with AI. A comprehensive 
report was released to highlight key digital empowerment 
insights and advancements from the past year. 
The Power of Digital Transformation:
Inspiring Collaboration and Empowering Change
Digital Empowers 
Business with Purpose (BwP) is an accelerator for social good 
and creates impact-driven ‘Purpose Partnerships’ through its 
unique framework. These partnerships address societal needs 
including education, skill development, and employment with 
TCS’ customers, Tata Group companies, and other 
like-minded organizations. Business with Purpose helps 
partner organizations meet their purpose commitment and 
give back to society. This provides collaborating organizations 
social positive opportunities in sync with their community 
goals.
TCS leverages its expertise to develop contextual solutions for 
pressing societal issues and fosters partnerships with 
customer leaders to generate wide-reaching, long-term, and 
sustainable impact. Bringing the company’s strategic 
programs, like go Innovate Together (goIT), Ignite My Future 
(IMF), and Youth Employment Program (YEP) to Purpose 
Partnerships helps TCS serve underserved communities 
further.
In FY 2024, more than 345 customer leaders, including 70 
senior executives, participated in diﬀerent Corporate Social 
Responsibility initiatives, globally. 
Business with Purpose (BwP)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
Non-proﬁts are enabled to use technology to enhance their 
reach and become sustainable.
Working closely with key stakeholders, TCS understands 
their needs and builds software tools to help them establish 
a digital presence, build operational transparency, raise 
funds easily, and improve eﬃciency. Tech4HOPE has 
generated millions of dollars of ‘social value’ since its 
inception.
In Australia, the Indigenous population is most aﬀected by 
urbanization. According to the Closing the Gap report, 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have on 
average shorter lifespan of 10-17 years, primarily due to 
lack of proper nutrition. Using environmentally sustainable 
technology, TCS developed a website for Food Ladder, an 
organization that provides communities access to fresh, 
nutrient-rich produce. The development of this new 
website enables Food Ladder to reach anyone, anywhere, 
and on any device.
TCS provided pro bono data governance consulting services 
to First Book, a non-proﬁt based in Washington, D.C., that 
provides books and other resources to classrooms, 
libraries, and programs serving children in need. Through a 
deep-dive inquiry, TCS recommended quick-to-implement 
improvements and long-term strategic solutions to bring 
First Book’s data governance eﬀorts up to best-practice 
standards. It marked a beneﬁcial step in helping First Book 
ensure stronger stakeholder relations and greater 
availability of funding and books for the children.
TCS has joined forces with the KidsRights Foundation in 
Amsterdam to introduce an innovative digital platform 
aimed at inspiring young changemakers and promoting 
awareness of children's rights. The platform, named State 
of Youth Kids, was launched globally in September 2023. 
The edutainment platform expands on the existing 
KidsRights’ platform for youth between the ages of 12 to 24 
years and now oﬀers a dedicated space for children aged 6 
to 12 years, who have the passion and courage to learn 
how to change the world for the better. The free learning 
portal provides age-tailored videos about the most pressing 
issues faced by the youth such as bullying, food waste, 
sexism, physical punishment, mental health, greenhouse 
gases, and more. 
Leaders with Purpose (LwP) is a nine-month immersive civic 
leadership learning and practice journey. It is designed to 
nurture the skills of TCS employees to lead societal change. 
The program equips participants with leadership, 
communication, and project management skills required for a 
sustained commitment to social impact. Through interactive 
classes and capstone projects, LwP cultivates a sense of social 
responsibility among participants. Upon graduating, 
participants are empowered to conduct their professional 
lives focusing on generating positive social change.
Leaders with Purpose (LwP)
In FY 2024, 65 “LwP’s” from Canada and the U.S. and 11 from 
U.K & Ireland graduated after intense in-classroom and online 
learning, followed by ﬁve months of hands-on work on 
real-world social impact projects. 

communities by oﬀering work-life balance and providing 
support for emotional wellness. When people feel 
psychologically safe, they build positive workplace 
relationships, realize their potential, proactively take on 
responsibilities, and make meaningful contributions to 
society.
Programs like HOPE, Fit4Life, SafetyFirst, and TCS Cares help 
create awareness about physical and emotional well-being. 
These programs also provide employees the opportunity to 
engage with the community purposefully.
Statista forecasts that by 2050, seniors will account for a 
third of Singapore's population. TCS launched Seniors Lab, a 
pilot digital program for integrated senior care to help 
seniors live and age with conﬁdence, in partnership with Sree 
Narayana Mission (SNM) in Singapore. Designed to address 
rising healthcare costs, Seniors Lab leverages technology to 
create an integrated care delivery system that lowers the 
cost of delivering care while helping the seniors of SNM lead 
safer, more comfortable, and independent lives.
As part of the CANSupport initiative, TCS Malaysia joined 
hands with the National Cancer Society Malaysia (NCSM), to 
develop the ﬁrst-ever digital solution to improve care for 
children with cancer. This groundbreaking initiative is in 
partnership with the Ministries of Health and Transport of 
Malaysia. TCS worked with NCSM to develop a 
technologically driven one-stop platform for all 
cancer-speciﬁc services connecting doctors and caregivers in 
Malaysia. The new digital solution can be accessed by any 
caregiver or newly diagnosed cancer patient.
TCS’ transformations at Tata Medical Center, Kolkata, and 
Cancer Institute, Chennai, facilitated 173,449 new patient 
consultations in FY 2024. 
Health and Wellness
Social Innovation at TCS is based on the belief that social 
change and inclusion are critical to people everywhere. TCS 
utilizes its intellectual and technological capital to generate 
transformational impact globally by providing digital services 
to social organizations, pro bono. TCS leverages its vast 
contextual knowledge, as well as the collective knowledge 
from a diverse network of subject matter experts, to deliver 
innovative solutions for speciﬁc problems that are unique to 
the community in question.
In FY 2024, TCS in Australia completed two projects that 
digitally enabled the Indigenous communities. TCS is 
working with the Indigenous partnerships team and 
research teams at the Australian Institute of Marine Science 
(AIMS) at Bindal Country (Townsville), Larrakia Country 
(Darwin) and Whadjuk Noongar Country (Perth) to build a 
“Northern Australia Marine Monitoring Alliance (NAMMA)” 
digital platform. This platform will leverage AIMS’ research 
and operations in alliance with Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander groups to provide training and build capacity in 
marine monitoring. It will enable Traditional Owners to 
understand changes to their sea country better and sustain 
their determination in preserving marine environments 
across Australia.
Social Innovation
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Corporate Social Responsibility
In the autumn of 2023, Digital Empowers 
orchestrated a transformative webinar, “Seeds of 
Change: Cultivating Generational Shifts through 
Literacy.” The lineup featured distinguished speakers 
including, the Joint Secretary of the Department of 
School Education and Adult Literacy, the CEO of 
Pratham Education Foundation, and the Chief Social 
Responsibility Oﬃcer of TCS.
The virtual gathering brought an audience of more than 
700 together. The participants included central and 
regional government representatives of India, Tata 
Group employees, members of NGOs, foundations, 
corporate entities, students, and more. In the webinar, 
along with showcasing the essence of its CSR initiatives, 
TCS underscored the profound impact of its cross-sector 
collaborations in positively transforming the lives of 
countless individuals. 
In FY 2024, the program has impacted 227,413 people from 
underprivileged communities and enabled them with better 
livelihoods.
Digital Impact Square (DISQ) - Zero Project Awardee 2024
DISQ, a TCS Initiative, is an incubation program for early-stage 
startups which focuses on community inclusion. Young 
innovators are provided skill-building, mentorship and seed 
funds for solutions including assistive technology for persons 
with disabilities. Since 2017, DISQ has nurtured and 
supported several Assistive Tech startups and impacted 
100,000+ disabled and their caregivers. DISQ received the 
#zeroprojectaward - Innovative Solution 2024 at the 
#ZeroConference for removing barriers and improving 
accessibility for disabled people and participated in the 
#ZeroConference. The award ceremony was held at the 
United Nations Oﬃce in Vienna where TCS shared the stage 
with awardees from 43 countries globally. This recognition 
acknowledges the ground-breaking work done by TCS’ 
Assistive Tech Startups. 

Corporate Social Responsibility
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Contributions to Disaster Relief Eﬀorts
Disaster relief eﬀorts are crucial in mitigating the impact of 
natural and human-made catastrophes. TCS extended its 
support by mobilizing resources and oﬀering aid to several 
aﬀected areas to help restore stability and hope.
TCS continued its partnership with the American Red Cross, 
providing disaster response training on Mass Care, 
Sheltering and Feeding as well as on Hands Only CPR 
awareness and Fire Safety. TCSers supported the community 
in the aftermath of the Hawaii Wildﬁre, bringing relief to 
over 1,600 residents. The TCS NYC Marathon also saw the 
largest ever fundraising in support of the Greater NY Region 
chapter of the Red Cross.
In Canada, TCS volunteers participated in MapSwipe sessions 
helping pinpoint where critical infrastructure and populations 
are located for mappers. This helps disaster responders oﬀer 
eﬃcient and eﬀective responses. Volunteers also supported 
Red Cross’ Mobile Food Clinic to ﬁll hampers and pack food 
items.
In February 2024, a large ﬁre aﬀected the communes of 
Valparaíso, Viña del Mar, Quilpué and Villa Alemana, in the 
Valparaíso Region in Chile. This has been categorized as one 
of the largest disasters in the country in the last 30 years. TCS 
Chile joined the aid campaign with the Chilean Red Cross, 
generating aid for non-perishable food and cleaning supplies 
that helped provide immediate assistance to multiple families 
aﬀected by the wildﬁre. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Responsibility & Sustainability 
Report
In May 2022, TCS became the first company to publish the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) to 
provide investors with enhanced disclosures about its ESG 
practices. The BRSR framework is based on the National 
Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) and 
consists of three sections:
Section A provides a broad overview of the business, its 
offerings, business and operations footprint, employees, related 
parties, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and transparency.
Section B covers management and process disclosures related 
to the businesses aimed at demonstrating the structures, 
policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC 
Principles and Core Elements.
Section C provides indicator-wise disclosures mapped to the nine 
principles of NGRBC which are listed at the start of Section B.
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Details of the listed entity1
 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed 
Entity: L22210MH1995PLC084781
 
Name of the Listed Entity: Tata Consultancy 
Services Limited (TCS)
 
Year of incorporation: 1995
 
Registered office address: 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India
 
Corporate address: TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort, 
Mumbai 400 001, Maharashtra, India.
 
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com
 
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
 
Website: www.tcs.com
 
Financial year for which reporting is being done: 
2023-24 
 
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed: National Stock Exchange of India Limited and 
BSE Limited
 
11. Paid-up Capital: `361.81 crore
 
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report:
 
 
Name: Milind Lakkad
 
 
Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer
 
 
Telephone number: +91 22 67789999
 
 
E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

GRI 2-1, GRI 2-3

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
13. Reporting boundary2 : This BRSR Report is prepared on a consolidated basis. The reporting boundary for the current year 
has been revised as compared to previous year. TCS has evaluated and does not believe that this change is material both 
qualitatively and quantitatively to the reporting under BRSR and GRI. The information/data measurement techniques used, 
and the basis of calculations and estimates have been mentioned in the relevant sections of this report.
 
 
There are certain restatements due to change in approach and methodology. The effects and reasons have been included 
under the respective Principles of this report. These restatements would enable consistency and comparability of 
information for the current year and previous year.3
 
14. Name of assurance provider : KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, Mumbai (KPMG).
 
15. Type of assurance obtained4 : BRSR Core Indicators - Reasonable assurance; Select BRSR Indicators - Limited assurance. 
II. 
Products/services5
 
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the Turnover):
 
 
TCS provides IT services, consulting and business solutions to many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformational 
journeys. Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided in the Financial 
Performance Overview section of Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
 
17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
 
 
Application Development and Maintenance, Consulting and Service Integration, Digital Transformation Services, Cognitive 
Business Operations & Products and Platforms. 
 
 
Some of the services broadly map to The National Industrial Classification (NIC) codes 6201, 6202, 6209 and 6311.
III. Operations5
 
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices* 
Total
National

International
Not Applicable (NA)

* Includes Delivery centres
 
19. Markets served by the entity:
 
 
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
28 States and 8 Union Territories
International (No. of Countries)

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 
 
 
94.4%
 
 
A brief on types of customers

sector. In India, TCS - works with departments of the Government of India and various state governments, systemically 
important entities and the private sector.
IV. Employees
 
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year: FY 2023-24
 
 
Employees (including differently abled)6:
S/N Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Permanent (D)
6,01,546
3,87,448
64.4
2,14,098
35.6
Other than Permanent (E)
30,312
19,168
63.2
11,144
36.8
Total employees (D + E)
6,31,858
4,06,616
64.4
2,25,242
35.6
 
 
 
All of TCS’ workforce is categorized as ‘Employees’ and none as ‘Workers’.
 
 
 
‘Other than Permanent’ category includes individuals on direct TCS contracts or through 3rd party.

GRI 2-2 

GRI 2-4 

GRI 2-5 

GRI 2-6 

GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8, GRI 405-1

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
Differently abled Employees:
S/N Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Permanent (D)

75.1

24.9
Other than Permanent (E)

77.8

22.2
Total differently abled employees (D + E)

75.1

24.9
 
 
 
Numbers mentioned above are based on voluntary disclosures by employees.
 
 
 
Differently abled includes hearing, visual, locomotor, orthopedic and others.
 
21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women7
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors

22.2
Key Management Personnel

Key Management Personnel (KMP) includes Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO & MD), Chief Operating 
Officer and Executive Director (COO & ED), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS).
 
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees8
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
12.5%
12.5%
12.5%
20.2%
20.1%
20.2%
17.3%
17.7%
17.4%
 
 
Turnover rates are last twelve months IT Services for all above-mentioned financial years.
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
 
23. Names of holding / subsidiary9
 
 
Tata Sons Private Limited is a holding company.
 
 
Refer to Form AOC-1 provided in this Integrated Annual Report for the list of subsidiary companies. All subsidiary companies 
participate in the Business Responsibility initiatives of the Company.
VI. CSR Details
 
24. (i) 
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
 
 
(ii) Turnover (in `) : `2,40,893 crore
 
 
(iii) Net worth (in `) : `90,489 crore

 GRI 405-1

 GRI 401-1 

 GRI 2-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
 
25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
(If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redress policy)10
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
https://on.tcs.com/GlobalCSR-Policy

Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Shareholders
Yes#

Employees
Yes#
1,171

In Progress

All 
addressed 
and 
closed
Customers
Yes#

a) Open and 
Work in Progress 
complaints have 
been included 
in ‘Pending 
resolution’
b) Complaints 
from customer 
projects that 
are raised in 
Complaints 
management 
system have been 
considered 

As on 
March 31, 
2024, only 2 
complaints 
were open
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes#

All 
addressed 
and 
closed
 
 
* Grievances and Concerns for FY 2022-23 mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
 
#https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP
 
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues11
 
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S/N
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying 
the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate12
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or negative 
implications)13
Kindly refer the “Enterprise Risk Management section” in Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26

GRI 3-2 

GRI 3-3

GRI 201-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section describes the structures, policies and processes aligned to nine principles of business responsibility. These briefly are as 
follows:
P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle
P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalized
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment
P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner
P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
Policy and management processes
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)14
 
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
 
Web Link of the Policies, if available
P1 to P9: Tata Code of Conduct 15(TCoC)
P1: Whistleblower Policy16
P2: Green Procurement Policy, Sustainable Supply 
chain Policy17
P3 and P5: Occupational Health & Safety Policy17, 
Employees related Policies18
P4 and P8: CSR Policy19
P6: Environmental Sustainability Policy20
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / No)21
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/No)22
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
Y23
Y24
Y25
Y26
Y27
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any28.
Y29
Y30
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
Y29
Y31

GRI 2-23

 https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct 

https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP

https://www.tcs.com/sustainability-strategy

HR policies available to employees on Ultimatix, TCS Intranet 

https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy 

https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Sustainability

GRI 2-24

GRI 2-23

TATA Code of Conduct

iQMSTM, TCS’ Integrated Quality Management System, comprehensively integrates the requirements and best practices of the latest industry 
models, frameworks and standards such as ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2019, ISO 27701:2019, ISO 20017:2015, 
ISO 27018:2019, CMMI® DEV v2.0 and CMMI® SVC v2.0; Health Safety and Environment Standards ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018; as well as 
industry domain specific standards such as AS9100 (Aerospace), TL9000 (Telecom) and ISO 13485 (Medical Devices).

ISO 45001:2018

TCS is aligned with international laws, principles, and norms, including those contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and are a signatory to 
the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006.

ISO 14001:2015 at 129 locations representing 84.9% of TCS office footprint, ISO 50001:2018 at 22 campuses and large offices in India

GRI 3-3

70% Reduction in absolute Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions (vs base year 2016), Net zero by 2030

80% Reduction from FY 2016 for scope 1 and 2 emissions and Renewable energy use at 74% in FY 2023-24

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Governance, leadership and oversight
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements32
 
“In an era where Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) are shaping the future of the enterprise, TCS has long embedded 
ESG principles into its core business strategy thereby future proofing its operations. TCS understands the importance of giving 
back to the communities it serves. TCS is actively involved in education, healthcare, and skill development through its social 
impact programs, and it adheres to the highest standards of corporate governance, transparency, accountability, and ethical 
conduct through the core of its operations. The Company’s ESG roadmap is an ongoing aspiration as TCS’ ESG principles and 
initiatives go beyond compliance, and it is a fundamental part of our identity as a responsible corporate citizen.” 
 
N G Subramaniam, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director (COO & ED)
 
To read more about TCS’ ESG Principles, Material Topics and Initiatives, kindly refer to the Sustainability Disclosures section, 
which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies)33.
Mr. Milind Lakkad, Chief Human Resources Officer
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / 
No). If yes, provide details34.
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC) 
of the Board is responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues.
Refer to Corporate Governance Report for additional 
information on SRC.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director (D) Committee of the Board 
(C) / Any Other Committee (O) / Board of 
Directors (B)
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half yearly (H) / 
Quarterly (Q) / Any other – please specify
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
Statutory Compliance Certificate on 
applicable laws is provided by the CEO & MD 
to the Board of Directors.
Quarterly
Annual where applicable
11. Has the entity carried out 
independent assessment / 
evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name 
of the agency.35
Y36
Y37
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
 
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.
Essential Indicators
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the Principles during the financial year38:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programs held *
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programs
Board of Directors (BoD)

All

Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)

All

Employees other than BoD and KMP
25,768
All

GRI 2-22 

GRI 2-13

GRI 2-9

GRI 2-5

TUV India Pvt Ltd. conducted the ISO 45001:2018 certification audit.

TUV India Pvt Ltd. conducted the ISO 45001:2018 and ISO 50001:2018 certification audits. 

GRI 2-17

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
All nine principles laid down in BRSR are covered by TCS mandatory trainings and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which are 
adhered to by all employees.
 
Awareness programs covering the applicable principles were held and attended by the Board of Directors.
 
The count is based on the total number of relevant offering of Virtual / Instructor Led Training programs in the learning 
management system, conducted in FY 2023-24, covering any of the nine principles tailor-made based on Roles.
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following 
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website)39:
 
NIL
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
 
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy40.
 
Yes. The TCoC contains guidelines on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. TCS is committed to upholding the highest moral and 
ethical standards, and does not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. The policy is available on the Company’s website at: 
https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct
 
Additionally, there is an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, governing TCS’ global operations available to employees on the 
company’s local intranet.
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery / corruption41:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMP
NIL
NIL
Employees*
NIL
NIL
 
*Restated to exclude cases which are not directly connected to the conduct of Company’s business or if connected, are not 
charged or convicted yet.
 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the 
Directors
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
 
Number of days of accounts payables [(Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured] in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of accounts payable

Trade payable excluding accrued expenses

GRI 2-27 

GRI 2-23, GRI 205-2 

GRI 205-3

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Open-ness of business
 
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and 
advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23 (%)
Concentration 
of Purchases
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
NIL
NIL
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
NIL
NIL
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
NIL
NIL
Concentration 
of Sales
Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
NIL
NIL
Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
NIL
NIL
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
NIL
NIL
Share of RPTs in a. 
Purchases(Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
5.1
2.8
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
2.3
1.9
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & advances)
45.3
5.6
Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
NIL
NIL
Leadership Indicators
Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number 
of Awareness 
programs 
held
Topics / Principles covered under the training
% age of value chain 
programs partners 
covered (by value of 
business done with such 
partners) under the 
awareness programs
3,409 Principle 3: Awareness on safe work at height, use of personal protective 
equipment, First-aid & medical emergency, incident reporting, housekeeping 
awareness, slip, trip, falls, health awareness, electrical safety, ergonomics and 
manual material handling, chemical safety, food safety, noise and indoor air quality 
monitoring, HSE legal requirement, lock-out and tag-out, permit to work, road 
safety etc,.
Principle 6: Environmental Awareness – Overview- noise pollution, energy 
conservation, waste disposal and air pollution.
100 % value chain partners 
were covered by training 
on various Occupational 
Health and Safety (OH&S) 
topics (including induction).
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If 
Yes, provide details of the same.
 
Yes. Kindly refer to the section titled “Material aspects of Corporate Governance and TCS’ approach to them” in the Corporate 
Governance Report within the Integrated Annual Report.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 2 : Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24 
(` crore)
FY 2022-23 
(` crore)
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Total R&D 
Expenditure
2,751 
(1.1% of Turnover)
2,500 
(1.1% of Turnover)
TCS’ investments in research and innovation have resulted in 
solutions like Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been 
using Clever Energy for the last several years to monitor and help 
reduce its energy consumption and is now commercially selling it 
and the other two solutions to clients to help them achieve their 
sustainability goals. 
Total Capex
2,650 
(1.1% of Turnover)
3,063 
(1.4% of Turnover)
Capital investments in infrastructure, including energy efficiency 
and other environmental initiatives.
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing42? (Yes/No)
 
 
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outlines its commitment to making its supply chain 
more responsible and sustainable. The policies are available on TCS website:
TCS Policy
Web link
Sustainable Supply Chain policy
https://on.tcs.com/SSCP
Green Procurement policy
https://on.tcs.com/GPP
 
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
 
100% of the Company’s suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.
 
 
As a part of engagement with TCS, all suppliers are expected to abide by the TCS’ Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), Health, 
Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements for contractors and the applicable policies.
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste43.
 
This is not relevant to TCS global operations as the Company is primarily an IT services organization providing software services 
and do not manufacture any physical products. 
 
As the Company provides software services through its office-based operations, it procures off-the-shelf items or products, which 
after their end of life are disposed off as per sustainable waste management practices. This is in line with the concept of circularity 
through waste minimization, segregation, reuse, recycling, and ecofriendly disposal according to regulatory requirements and 
industry best practices.
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
 
No. This is not applicable to TCS as the Company provides software services and do not have any physical products as part of its 
offerings to customers.

GRI 308-1 

GRI 306-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
 
No. This is not applicable to TCS. TCS does not have any physical products as a part of its offerings to customers. TCS is primarily 
an IT services organization and products, if any, are typically software products. Hence the applicability of life-cycle approach 
to TCS’ core operations is rather limited. Application of a life cycle approach is hence restricted to the services and products 
procured by TCS for its own operations. Most of the product categories procured are off-the-shelf items. Hence, the life cycle 
philosophy as extended to these include green procurement considerations as a part of the technical specifications for purchase 
and end-of-life management to maximize recycling.
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products 
/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the 
same along-with action taken to mitigate the same44.
 
TCS is a provider of IT consulting services and business solutions. No social or environmental concerns are associated with the use 
of its offerings. Details of the environmental footprint of TCS’ operations and mitigation steps are provided as part of disclosures 
under Principle 6.
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate Input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23(%)
Materials* used in brownfield projects
20-25
20-25
Materials** used in greenfield projects
30-35
30-35
*Brownfield projects - Gypsum, Ceiling Tiles, Glass, Kota Flooring, Vitrified Tiles, Carpet, MS Railing, Workstations, Marine 
Plywood, Common Plywood, Chairs, Laminate, MDF, Doors
**Greenfield Projects - Cement, Steel, RCC, Structural Steel, Paver blocks, AAC Block, Solid Blocks, Gypsum, Ceiling Tiles, Glass, 
Kota Flooring, Vitrified Tiles, Carpet, MS Railing, Workstations, Marine Plywood, Common Plywood, Chairs, Laminate, MDF, 
Doors
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
 
NA, as TCS does not have physical products as a part of its offerings.
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
 
NA, as TCS does not have physical products as a part of its offerings.

GRI 306-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
Details of measures for the well-being of employees45:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care facilities
Number 
(B)
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A) Number 
(E)
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
3,87,448 3,76,337
97.1 3,69,413
95.3
12,923
3.3
89,173
23.0

Female
2,14,098 2,06,600
96.5 2,04,662
95.6 2,10,382
98.3
6,257
2.9

Total
6,01,546 5,82,937
96.9 5,74,075
95.4 2,23,305
37.1
95,430
15.9

Other than Permanent Employees
Male
All the value chain partners adhere to the required statutory compliance in the countries in which TCS 
operates. TCS monitors and tracks the compliance of value chain partners, as per applicable local laws.
Female
Total
 
 
Each geography complies with the social security measures as prescribed by the respective countries in which TCS 
operates.
 
 
In India, Paternity Leave benefit is applicable only to employees of the erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited. 
 
 
In Overseas geographies, for certain countries, employees irrespective of gender can avail either Maternal or Paternal 
benefits and thus covered under both Maternal and Paternal benefits. 
 
 
In Overseas geographies, employees have an option to voluntarily opt out of insurance benefits, as per the country in 
which TCS operates.
 
 
TCS does not offer day care facilities on its premises. TCS has location-wise tie-ups with third-party run day care centers, 
which employees can avail.
 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) 
in the following format –
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well- being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
1.7%
1.7%
 
 
Employee salary/wages during Parental benefits are included.
 
 
All expenditures related to staff welfare including Employee Insurance, Benefits, Rewards, Reimbursement and other 
staff related expenditures excluding salary/wages.
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year46.
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
No. of employees 
covered as a % of total 
employees
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of total 
employees
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/N/N.A.)
India retirement benefits
Provident Fund (PF)


Gratuity


Employee State Insurance (ESI)


Superannuation (SA)


National Pension Scheme (NPS)


Overseas retirement benefits 

 
For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
FY 2023-24 numbers on PF, Gratuity, ESI, SA and NPS are specific to India Geography as these benefits are specific to India
 
Each geography has its own retiral benefits / social security measures extended to the employees in compliance with the 
local governing laws in which TCS operates.

GRI 401-2 

GRI 201-3 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPWD 2016 Act)? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this 
regard.
 
Yes. All TCS-owned premises have accessibility provided as per the RPWD 2016 Act.
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a weblink to the policy. –
 
Yes. The Tata Code of Conduct can be accessed at: https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct. Additionally, there is a Disability 
Inclusion Policy, governing TCS’ India operations mapped to the RPWD 2016 Act, governing TCS’ India operations, available to 
employees on the Company’s local intranet.
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave 47.
Gender
Permanent employees
Return to work rate (%)
Retention rate (%)
Male
100.0
92.9
Female
99.9
93.0
Total
99.9
92.9
 
Return to work: Rate of employees who joined back from their parental leave in FY 2023-24.
 
Retention Rate: Of the employees “Returned to Work”, % of employees those who are employed with TCS at the end of FY 2023-24.
 
Parental leave includes maternity, paternity and adoption leave.
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances48 for the following categories of employees and workers? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes, employees can use the “Employee Concerns” application to log their grievances in TCS 
internal portal, which is addressed by the respective stakeholders within the stipulated timelines
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Yes, non-permanent employees can raise the grievances through e-mail to the concerned 
stakeholders.
 Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity49:
Category
FY 2023-24#
FY 2022-23*
Total 
employees 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
association(s)or 
Union (B)
% (B / A) Total 
employees 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/ C)
Total Permanent Employees
6,01,546
6,997
1.2
5,23,842

0.01
Male
3,87,448
4,698
1.2
3,34,825

0.02
Female
2,14,098
2,299
1.1
1,89,017

0.00
 
For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
Numbers mentioned above are based on voluntary disclosures by employees.

GRI 401-3 

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26 

GRI 2-30

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Details of training given to employees50:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total (A)
On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
3,87,448
3,74,988
96.8
3,25,397
84.0
3,93,771
3,88,587
98.7
3,49,717
88.8
Female
2,14,098
2,06,519
96.5
1,76,807
82.6
2,19,423
2,13,293
97.2
1,93,281
88.1
Total
6,01,546
5,81,507
96.7
5,02,204
83.5
6,13,194
6,01,880
98.2
5,42,998
88.6
 
*For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ global operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees51:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total (A)#
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
3,42,187
3,26,639
95.5
2,53,389
2,48,055
97.9
Female
1,86,739
1,72,919
92.6
1,43,140
1,36,061
95.1
Total
5,28,926
4,99,558
94.4
3,96,529
3,84,116
96.9
 
*For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
Column A represents employees eligible for annual performance review and excludes new joiners with less than a year in the 
company.
10. Health and safety management system:
 
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage of such system52?
 
 
Yes. TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management System standard across 129 
of its facilities worldwide in FY 2023-24. These certified locations constitute 84.9% of office footprint and 89.6% of people 
footprint operating from these locations.*
 
 
TCS has a well-defined OHS policy and supporting processes to ensure the safety and well-being of its employees. Safety 
lead and lag indicators are measured across the organization and reported (refer table below for targets and performance). 
The board-level Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee reviews the Company’s health and safety performance on a half 
yearly basis. Over 89.6% of the workforce is represented in joint management-employee health and safety committees that 
monitor, advise and drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.

GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2 

GRI 404-3 

GRI 403-1 
*TCS has offices that are spread across various geographies. Delivery centers with >200 seats from India and >50 seats from overseas were considered 
as a criteria for certification.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
OHS targets and performance:
Objectives
Goals
Indicator
Target
Performance in FY24 (Target 
achieved Yes / No)
Incident reporting and 
implementation of 
remedial measures
Reporting of 
workplace safety 
observations and 
near miss cases
Number of cases
Increase in number of 
reporting
Yes. 53.9% increase in 
reporting of near-misses 
and safety observations 
compared to previous year, 
due to increased awareness 
amongst employees
Building a safety 
culture and inculcating 
safe work practices 
among associate & 
facility management 
contractors
Providing training 
for associate and 
contractors
Hours of training for 
associates
1 hour per associate 
per year
Yes. 1 hour per associate per 
year (mandatory OHS webbased training)
Hours of training for 
contract staff
2 hours per contract 
staff per year
Yes. 4.9 hours of training per 
contract staff achieved in the 
year
Creating general OHS 
awareness
Number of awareness 
communication
1 awareness 
communication per 
quarter
Yes. Communication on OHS 
campaigns done once a 
quarter
Number of awareness 
campaign
1 awareness campaign 
per quarter
Yes. One campaign per 
quarter
Providing safe 
workplaces
H&S inspections for 
all the sites
Number of inspections
Annual inspection per 
site
Yes. 1 inspection at each site.
 
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity53?
 
 
As a part of its ISO 45001:2018 compliant Occupational Health and Safety Management System, TCS has a documented 
procedure to carry out assessment of work-related hazards and risks for all routine and non-routine activities carried out at 
any location. Hazard and risk identification is carried out by the process owners in consultation with the safety experts. The 
process owners are responsible to ensure adequate controls are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS 
risks. Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified hazards and risks.
 
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)53
 
 
Yes. TCS has a safety incident reporting and management process to ensure that all work-related incidents (which include 
accidents, near-misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts) are reported and closed after taking necessary corrective 
actions. This is enabled through an online safety incident reporting tool which is accessible to all TCS employees to facilitate 
transparent reporting. The platform also supports incident investigation and corrective action with the perspective of 
eliminating hazards and preventing incidents. The awareness to employees on incident reporting is created during induction, 
mandatory OHS web-based training (WBT) and communication through mailers during monthly theme on incident 
reporting. The action owners are also sensitized on the importance of taking corrective action within given timelines with 
the perspective of eliminating hazards and ensuring mitigation plan is implemented. TCSers can also report their health and 
safety related issues or concerns through an internal Admin Helpdesk and these issues are resolved by the concerned action 
owner within prescribed timelines. They can also e-mail their concerns to the Corporate HSE e-mail ID and communicate 
with local health and safety teams.
 
 Do the employees of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)54
 
 
Yes. TCS recognizes that overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral to its success and growth 
aspirations. TCS has taken a holistic approach to well-being to cover mental health, ergonomic health, physical health, 
delivered through digital channels, hospital insurance services, occupational health services and through seamless 
integration of all stakeholders.
 
 
TCS has occupational health centers (OHC) at TCS facilities in India. The employees and contractors at these facilities have 
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services as well. During the year, TCS facilitated several virtual specialist 
consultations with gynecologists, and gastroenterologists with whom employees can book pre-scheduled appointments and 
avail the services. These consulting services have helped employees to a large extent during their return to the offices.

GRI 403-2 

GRI 403-6

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
Beyond the OHCs, TCS provides comprehensive medical and healthcare services to employees through the Company-funded 
medical insurance to employees and their dependents. In overseas geographies, non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services are provided as per the country regulations.
 
 
To enable physical fitness, TCS has recreational facilities and gymnasiums at many of its facilities; it organized yoga programs 
such as online sessions, sun salutation challenge and personalized yoga training; continued to run the Fit4Life program with 
daily workout sessions, walking and running challenges.
 
 
Mental well being: TCS, through its TCS Cares initiative, instituted programs for employees and their families to help cope 
with mental stress and anxiety. Online counselling sessions and self-help resources help employees facing high distress levels 
through empathetic support by HR, managers, and peers. Emotional well-being (EWB) leaves are available to employees who 
need them. TCS Cares mental health wellness web-based training (WBT) was completed by many employees during the year. 
Multiple manager and HR sensitization trainings and masterclasses by experts were included as part of the psychologically 
safe workplaces initiative. Senior leadership engagement continued through the Cares Leadership Program, One to One Care 
coaching and the Weekly Care nudges. The Cares Peer Support program for training associates to be emotional health first 
aiders was also launched. The Global Mental Health month was observed in October where multiple offerings on the theme 
of “Compassion & Empathy” were carried out through TCS Calendar events.
11. Details of safety related incidents55, in the following format:
 
Typical to any service sector company operating out of office-based premises, most common injuries occur due to slips, trips 
and falls or being struck by stationary objects, road accidents in company provided transport. TCS ensures capturing all types 
of incidents including accidents, near-misses and safety observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with 
appropriate corrective and preventive actions.
 
The safety incident statistics is given below –
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
0.009
0.016
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees

No. of fatalities
Employees

High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees

#Fatality related to a road accident in company provided transport.
 
*Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place56.
 
TCS recognizes that occupational, health and safety (OHS) and overall physical and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral 
to its success and growth aspirations as spelled out in its OHS Policy. TCS is committed to provide safe workplaces focusing on 
preventing injuries, illnesses, and continuously strives to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks.
 
There are no major H&S risks associated with TCS’ operations as software solutions and IT services provider which operates 
from offices. Key workplace safety risks include fire safety in buildings, office safety risks such as slips / trips / falls and electrical 
safety (e.g. electric shock) from use of office equipment and road safety risks during commutes in company-provided vehicles. 
Key occupational health related risks are associated with workplace ergonomics, indoor air quality and workplace illumination. 
Hazard identification and risk assessment processes are conducted to identify each such risks and ensure that proper mitigation 
measures are put in place to create a healthy and safe work environment.
 
Some of the mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate significant occupational H&S impacts include,
 
Provision and maintenance of fire detection, alarm and suppression systems.
 
Regular site review, inspections and audits to assess safety preparedness.
 
Regular mock drills for fire, earthquake, bomb threat as well as medical emergencies.
 
Provision of ergonomically designed chairs and workstations to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s).
 
Digital monitoring of indoor air quality and periodic cleaning of the HVAC ducts to avoid sick building syndrome.
 
Regular training on occupational health & safety to sensitize employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of safety.
 
Employee engagement campaigns on H&S topics such as fire safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, and ergonomics, 
among others.

GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 

GRI 403-6, GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees57:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions

NIL

NIL
Health & Safety
 
*Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control. Human rights related complaints 
disclosed under Principle 5.
14. Assessments for the year 58:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties)
Health and safety practices
129 locations at TCS are certified to ISO 45001:2018, OHS Management Systems Standards. 
100% of TCS offices have been audited during FY 2023-24 by qualified internal auditors at TCS.
In FY 2023-24, 30% of ISO 45001 certified TCS locations underwent external/ third party 
audits. In FY 2023-24, 38 offices have undergone ISO 45001:2018 audits by TUV India Pvt Ltd 
for occupational health and safety.
60 statutory audits were conducted on H&S practices (lift, fire, electrical, food safety, STP 
inspection, SPCB visit, municipal corporation inspection).
Working Conditions
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks 
/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions59.
 
The road transport, slip, trip and fall, cut injury related incidents have been investigated and closed with necessary corrective 
actions. The corrective actions included training on defensive driving, behaviour based safety practices etc,.
Leadership Indicators
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of Employees (Y/N) –
 
Yes. 
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
 
TCS monitors and track the compliance of value chain partners locally and centrally. The Company ensures that statutory dues are 
remitted to respective PF / ESI / Labour Welfare Fund (LWF) etc. authority by the contractors and proof of the same is produced 
on a periodic basis.
Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported 
in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment60:
 
NIL
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) –
 
No. TCS provides counselling sessions for retiring employees briefing the benefits available, post-retirement.

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26 

GRI 3-3 

GRI 403-10 

GRI 403-9

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Details on assessment of value chain partners 61:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
TCS’ supply chain sustainability requirements are integrated with online procurement platform with 
the ‘Sourcing module’ and ‘Risk module’. TCS’ HSE policies, procedures, guidelines, and Supplier 
Code of Conduct (SCoC) are included in sourcing module in RFP template for digital acceptance by 
all suppliers / vendors who are considered for evaluation.
Some critical suppliers such as regulated waste disposal services (e-waste, hazardous waste, 
battery wastes), bottled water suppliers, food suppliers for cafeteria and similar suppliers undergo 
legal compliance due diligence and site inspection before initiating the negotiation process. The 
procurement team ensures that SCoC acceptance is done by vendors and all compliances are in 
place for which a tracking system is maintained.
TCS also conducts periodic audits/review of processes/documents of on-boarded vendors who 
have contractual agreement. 
Working Conditions
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners 61.
 
TCS conducts regular H&S audits for high-risk vendors such as caterers, transport vendors, and bottled water vendors. Any 
findings during these audits are tracked to closure. For example, if any vehicle provided by a transport vendor is found noncompliant to the TCS safety standards and guidelines, it is immediately removed from the roster.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity 62.
 
TCS engages with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, to deepen its insights into their needs and expectations, and to develop 
sustainable strategies for the short, medium and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps to manage risks and 
opportunities in business operations. The key stakeholders identified in consultation with the company’s management are: 
customers, employees, shareholders, academic institutions, staffing firms, other suppliers, technology partners and collaborators, 
industry bodies, governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large.
 
Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages with – such as industry analysts, equity analysts, and the news media are 
proxies for other named stakeholders i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively.
 
Stakeholder interactions might be structured (e.g. surveys, account statements) or unstructured (town halls, 1x1 or group 
meetings). Based on mutual convenience and need, the engagement may be scheduled as needed, or pre-scheduled on a 
periodic basis, or ongoing (e.g. website, social media).

GRI 414-2 

GRI 2-29

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group 62
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of Communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of Engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Customers
As needed: Project-related 
calls and meetings; project 
management reviews; 
relationship meetings and 
reviews; executive meetings 
and briefings; customer 
visits; responses to RFIs/RFPs; 
sponsored events; mailers; 
newsletters; brochures
Continuous: TCS website; 
social media (LinkedIn, 
Twitter, Facebook, 
Instagram, YouTube)
Half-yearly: 
Customer satisfaction 
surveys
Annual: Customer 
summits; Innovation 
days; Executive 
customer surveys; 
Sponsored 
Community events
Understanding client, 
industry and business 
challenges
Identifying opportunities to 
improve TCS’ service and 
products for cross-selling
Deciding on investments 
and capabilities required to 
fulfil demand
Understanding client’s 
data privacy and security 
requirements
Investors and 
Shareholders
As needed: Press releases 
and press conferences; 
email advisories; inperson meetings; investor 
conferences; non-deal 
roadshows; conference calls
Quarterly: Financial 
statements in IndAS 
and IFRS; earnings 
call; exchange 
notifications; press 
conferences
Continuous: 
Investors page on the 
TCS website
Annual: Annual 
General Meeting; 
Annual Report
Educating the investor 
community about TCS 
integrated value creation 
model and business 
strategy for the long term
Helping investors voice 
their concerns regarding 
company policies, 
reporting, strategy, etc.
Understanding shareholder 
expectations
Employees
As needed: Town halls; 
roadshows; project or 
operations reviews; 
video conferences; audio 
conference calls; one-on-one 
counselling
Monthly: @TCS (inhouse magazine)
Continuous: 
TCS website; 
Communication via 
TCS intranet, dipstick 
surveys; grievance 
redressal system, 
OneTCS Newsroom
Annual: PULSE 
(employee feedback 
survey); long-service 
awards; sales meets; 
Blitz (business 
planning meet)
Career management and 
growth prospects
Learning opportunities
Compensation structure
Building a safety culture 
and inculcating safe work 
practices among employees
Improving Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion
Partners and 
Collaborators
As needed: Meetings/calls; 
COINTM meetings; visits; 
partner events
Monthly: Conference 
calls
Quarterly: Business 
reviews
Annual: Partner 
events
Stronger partnerships
Demand sustainability
Credit worthiness
Ethical behavior
Fair business practices
Governance

GRI 2-29

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of Communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of Engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Academic 
Institutions
As needed: Academic 
Interface Program; CoInnovation Network (COIN™) 
meetings
Continuous: TCS 
website; academic 
portal
Annual: Sangam 
(high-level academic 
conference); campus 
recruitment
Knowledge-exchange 
collaboration
Advancing the academic’s 
research program / 
curriculum enhancement
Job creation
Internship opportunities
Faculty development
Recruiters; 
staffing 
firms; other 
suppliers
One-time: RFIs/RFPs; 
empanelment process
As needed: 
Transactional 
meetings; periodic 
reviews; surveys
Continuous: Tata 
Code of Conduct, 
Supplier evaluations
Diversity hiring initiatives 
and what are the biggest 
challenges
Adaptation of 
procurement processes to 
environmental, economic 
and ethical requirements
Industry 
bodies, 
Regulators
As needed (need basis / 
usually 1-2 meetings in 3 
months’ basis):
Conferences and 
seminars,
working committee 
meetings,
surveys, other meetings
Annual: Conferences; 
summits
Ensure 100% compliance to 
all local laws
Cross-industry sustainability 
initiatives and knowledge 
transfer to promote 
sustainability
Media, 
industry 
analysts, 
society at large
As needed: Governance 
RFIs/RFPs; presentations; 
project meetings; reviews; 
calls and meetings; surveys; 
consultative sessions; field 
visits; due diligence; calls 
and meetings; conferences 
and seminars; surveys; press 
releases; press conferences; 
media interviews and quotes; 
sponsored events, Analyst 
days.
Continuous: Annual 
General Meeting, 
Quarterly reports and 
Annual report, Earnings 
conference call, Media 
interaction, Press releases, 
TCS website.
Understand areas for 
sustainable development
Communicate TCS’ 
performance and strategy
Manage TCS’ brand and 
reputation
Share and contribute to 
thought leadership and 
insight into public and 
business concerns
Discuss TCS’ response to 
responsible business issues
Work in partnership to 
develop solutions to global 
challenges
NGOs, local 
communities, 
women, youth 
and other 
marginalized 
groups
Yes
As needed: Project meetings; 
reviews; calls and meetings; 
surveys; consultative sessions; 
field visits; due diligence; calls 
and meetings; conferences 
and seminars; surveys
Continuous: Quarterly 
Reports and Annual 
Report, TCS website
Understand community 
needs
Plan and implement CSR 
projects
Share and contribute to 
thought leadership
Work in partnership 
to serve underserved 
communities

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or 
if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business solutions organization with a presence across multiple geographies, industries, 
services and products. TCS consults stakeholders on material topics and also conducts periodic materiality assessments to 
update the list on an ongoing basis. Stakeholder interactions result in the identification of a broad funnel of issues important to 
each of the constituencies. The Company uses discussions with internal and external stakeholders, as well as its own judgment, 
to prioritize and arrive at a list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social impacts on TCS’ business, 
reputation, and operations. The TCS management shares feedback with the Board on these issues.
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
Yes, TCS’ ESG strategy on material topics uses inputs gathered during stakeholder consultations. Material topics are shortlisted 
and prioritized based on their impact on our stakeholders and our business and are included in the section titled ‘Sustainability 
Disclosures’, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
 
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format 63:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Permanent
6,01,546
5,88,699
97.9
5,23,842
5,19,799
99.2
Other than permanent
30,312
24,543
81.0
2,412
2,396
99.3
Total Employees
6,31,858
6,13,242
97.1
5,26,254
5,22,195
99.2
 
*For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Details of minimum wages paid to employees, in the following format64:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total (A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.(B)
% (B /A)
No.(C)
% (C /A)
No.(E)
% (E/D)
No.(F)
% (F/D)
Permanent
Male
3,87,448

0.1 3,87,033
99.9 3,34,827

0.2 3,34,273
99.8
Female
2,14,098

0.2 2,13,580
99.8 1,89,015

0.3 1,88,482
99.7
Other than Permanent
Male
All the value chain partners adhere to the required statutory compliance in the countries in which TCS 
operates. TCS monitors and tracks the compliance of the value chain partners, as required by law of 
land.
Female
 
*For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.

GRI 2-24 

GRI 405-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format65:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category 
 (` Lakh per annum)
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category (` Lakh per annum)
Board of Directors (BoD)

263.6

133.3
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)

721.3
Employees other than BoD and KMP
3,87,444
14.8
2,14,098
10.4
 
At TCS, remuneration is same for men and women working full-time, in the same grade, in the same role, and at the same 
location, and with the same level of experience66. Where relevant, the company publishes the raw mean and median pay 
differences between genders (not normalized for part-timers or grade and role differences) on its own website as well as on 
public sites. Gaps in median salary between genders is due to different proportion of men & women across experience levels 
and grades. TCS’ focused diversity and inclusion programs are expected to narrow this gap over time.
 
KMP includes CEO & MD, COO & ED, CFO, CS, erstwhile CEO & MD.
 
 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23 (%)
Gross wages paid to female as % of total wages
26.1
26.1
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business67? (Yes/No) –
 
Yes
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues68.
 
Reporting avenues have been provided to employees, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders to raise concerns or make 
disclosures when they become aware of any actual or potential violation of the Company Code, policies or law including human 
rights violations. Non-permanent employees can raise the grievances via email to the concerned stakeholders. Additionally, 
anybody can make protected disclosures under the company’s Whistle Blower policy. Representations made in the reporting 
avenues are reviewed and appropriate action is taken on substantiated violations.

GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21 

GRI 202-1, GRI 405-2 

GRI 2-13 

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees69:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment

All pending cases 
are currently closed
Discrimination at 
workplace

Child Labour

Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour

Wages

Other human rights 
related issues

*For FY 2022-23 information mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
Higher reported cases due to increased awareness.
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in 
the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)

Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.05%
0.03%
Complaints on POSH upheld

The number reported for FY 2023-24 include complaints reported globally by employees and for FY 2022-23, information 
mentioned are for TCS’ India operations, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
Higher reported cases due to increased awareness.
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases70.
 
Concerns on discrimination and harassment are dealt with confidentially. TCS does not tolerate any form of retaliation against 
anyone reporting good faith concerns. Anyone involved in targeting such a person raising such complaints will be subject to 
disciplinary action.
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)71
 
Yes
10. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or 
third parties)
Child labour
TCS internally monitors compliance with all relevant laws and policies pertaining to these 
issues at 100% of its offices. There have been no observations by local statutory / third 
parties in India in FY 2023-24.
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
 

GRI 406-1 

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26 

GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
 
Human rights are protected and upheld in TCS’ core value of ‘Respect for the individual’ and enshrined in the TCoC that guides 
how TCS conducts itself in every community that it operates in. TCS has relevant in-house policies and procedures to reinforce 
human rights, resulting in a good track record regarding human rights grievances or complaints. TCS continually gathers feedback 
and keeps track of developments in the regulatory area to further strengthen existing processes.
Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
 
 TCS adopts a zero-tolerance approach to issues related to human rights. It follows all government regulations and regulatory 
policies in the countries where it operates and comply to all applicable global and local laws including collective bargaining 
agreements through its policies and standards. TCS executes the TCoC which takes care of Human Rights aspects. In vendor 
management, TCS ensures due diligence for human rights under the ESG framework.
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
Yes. All TCS-owned premises are accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the the RPWD 2016 Act.
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed
Sexual Harassment
All value chain partners are expected to adhere to the applicable laws, TCOC and Supplier 
Code of Conduct which does not tolerate any form of harassment, whether sexual, 
physical, verbal, or psychological. However, TCS does not conduct any formal assessment 
for the same.
Discrimination at workplace
100% of value chain partners were assessed.
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
 
There were no significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format72:
 
Electricity from the grid is the most significant form of energy for TCS. Over the years, TCS has increased the share of Renewable 
Electricity (RE) through “green-tariff” schemes offered by the state electricity providers, onsite rooftop solar generation and 
procurement from third party producers in India. In certain countries, Energy Attribute Certificates (EAC) have been procured to 
meet out carbon neutrality objectives in those geographies. The RE consumption as a percentage of total energy consumption has 
increased from 55.2% in FY 2022-23 to 74% in FY 2023-24. Electricity consumption across TCS operations increased by 
14.6% y-o-y on account of increased scale of operations in FY 2023-24 compared to previous year, due to more associates 
returning to office. An inclusion of 14 locations globally in the reporting boundary during the current year attributed to a 2.8% 
increase leading to an overall increase in electricity consumption. .
 
Other sources of energy include natural gas (mainly used for space heating/cooling, district heating and cooling, mostly in 
overseas geographies), fuel used in company owned vehicles, cooking gas used in cafeteria and diesel used in diesel generators 
(mainly used as a back-up source during power shortages).

GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
Details of total energy consumption [(in Mega Joules (MJ)] and energy intensity are provided below:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23# 
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,26,61,08,110
83,03,88,643
Total fuel consumption (B)
NIL
NIL
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
1,80,187
1,54,994
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
1,26,62,88,297
83,05,43,637
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
37,58,00,721
60,24,10,331
Total fuel consumption (E)72
6,70,93,957
7,20,62,111
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NIL
NIL
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
44,28,94,678
67,44,72,442
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
1,70,91,82,976
1,50,50,16,079
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total energy consumed (MJ) / Revenue from operations)
0.000710
0.000668
Energy intensity per rupee turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total energy consumed (MJ) / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
0.016234
0.015273
Energy intensity in terms of physical output [(MJ)/ Full Time Employee (FTE)]
2,715.2
2,454.4
 
#Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
 
*The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the year 2022 
by World Bank for India which is 22.88.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. Independent assurance has been carried out by KPMG.
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water73, in the following format:
 
The sources of freshwater at TCS include third party water (88.5%), groundwater (8.7%) and rainwater harvested (2.8%). TCS 
optimizes water consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and utilization of harvested rainwater. All 
newer campuses have been designed for higher water efficiencies, treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting. 
The detailed break up is given below:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23# 
Water withdrawal by source [in kilolitres (KL)]
(i) 
Surface water
NIL
NIL
(ii) 
Groundwater
2,56,802
1,73,539
(iii) Third party water
26,06,339
20,58,419
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
NIL
NIL
(v) 
Others – Rainwater utilized
83,437
56,730
Total volume of water withdrawal (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
29,46,578
22,88,688
Total volume of water consumption (KL)
24,67,342
20,82,781
Water intensity Per Rupee of turnover 
(Total water consumption (KL) / Revenue from operations)
0.000001
0.000001
Water intensity Per Rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) 
(Total water consumption (KL) / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000023
0.000021
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Water Consumed in KL/FTE)
3.9
3.4
 
#Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.

GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. Independent assurance has been carried out by KPMG.
Provide the following details related to water discharged#:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment [in kilolitres (KL)]
(i) 
To Surface Water
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) 
To Groundwater
No treatment
With treatment – Please specify level of treatment
(iii) To Seawater
No treatment
With treatment – Please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties
No treatment
2,88,621
1,38,727
With treatment – Please specify level of treatment 
Note - Excess water discharged from TCS owned campuses and Water sent from 
TCS locations to builder’s STP for further treatment.
1,90,615
67,180
(v) 
Others
No treatment
With treatment – Please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (KL)
4,79,236
2,05,907 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. Independent assurance has been carried out by KPMG.
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation74.
 
Yes, TCS has achieved zero liquid discharge across most of its owned campuses, except those where there are operational 
constraints. TCS optimizes water consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and rainwater harvesting. 
All newer campuses have been designed for treatment and recycling of sewage and rainwater harvesting.
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx 
SOx 
Particulate matter (PM) 
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 
Others – please specify 
 
There are no continuous sources of air emissions in our operations. The DG sets are operated only during power outages and 
hence the air emissions of pollutants (other than GHGs) are not material.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
The DG stack emissions are sampled and analyzed by government approved laboratories and the reports are reviewed by the 
internal team to ensure compliance to the CTO conditions. These stack emission reports are submitted to government authorities 
(State Pollution Control Boards) as per consent conditions. These reports are also verified during internal and external audits to 
verify compliance.
GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-4 

GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format75:
 
The Scope 1 emissions are from direct GHG sources like fuel used in company owned vehicles, diesel generators and cafeteria, 
fugitive emissions of refrigerants, and fuel used for space heating. Scope 1 accounts for about 23% of the Scope 1 + Scope 2 
carbon footprint in FY 2023-24. The balance 77% are from indirect emissions, referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with 
purchased electricity. The breakup is provided as required in the table below.
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23#
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
21,949.0
20,972.0
- CO2
tCO2e
6,600.0
4,780.0
- CH4
tCO2e
5.4
2.7
- N2O
tCO2e
34.5
39.8
- HFC
tCO2e
15,309.0
16,150.0
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
73,722.0
1,17,265.0
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) / Revenue 
from operations)
tCO2e/rupee 
turnover
0.00000004
0.00000006
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) / Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
tCO2e/rupee 
turnover 
adjusted for PPP
0.00000091
0.00000140
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
tCO2e/FTE
0.15
0.20
 
#Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. Independent assurance has been carried out by KPMG.
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details76.
 
Yes. TCS has taken up the target to reduce its absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon footprint by 70% by 2025 and become net 
zero by 2030. To achieve these targets, the green-house gas management approach has four key levers – green infrastructure, 
green IT, IT-enabled operational efficiencies, and renewable energy.
 
Commitment to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
 
In June 2022, TCS has responded to SBTi’s urgent call for corporate climate action by committing to align with 1.5°C and net-zero 
through the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. This is published on SBTi website and can be viewed at Companies taking 
action - https://sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-action. TCS is working on the next steps to developing company targets 
for validation by SBTi.
 
Green Infrastructure and IT enabled operational efficiency:
 
All new campuses owned by TCS are designed according to green building standards for energy and resource efficiency. They have 
roof-top solar photovoltaic installations to reduce the carbon footprint. The total Built Up Area occupied by TCS has increased 
YoY from 36.6 Mn to 38.23 million sq.ft. in FY 2023-24. With the increasing footprint, TCS is committed to expand consciously its 
green footprint, to align with its sustainability goals. In FY 2023-24, TCS got Platinum IGBC certification for 2 additional existing 
buildings namely Sholinganallur, Chennai and Deccan Park, Hyderabad. The % green certified area over built up area was 64.6% in 
FY 2022-23 and has increased to 67.3% this year. This accounts for 39 TCS offices and campuses with over 25.74 million sq.ft of 
area under certified green building by Indian Green Building Council.

GRI 305-1; GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4. Scope 1 emissions have been calculated using the emissions factors published by the DEFRA conversion factors 
2023. For Scope 2 emissions – for India, the source is the emission factor is the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, User Guide, 
Version 19.0, December 2023, published by the Central Electricity Authority of India. This emission factor [(0.716 tCO2/ MWh) by CEA includes 
the captive power injection into the grid and is adjusted for RE transactions through open access (in power exchanges)]. As TCS, India procures 
electricity from the India grid, which is a mix of conventional and renewable energy, the emission factor of 0.716 tCO2/ MWh is considered more 
appropriate. For Australia, Canada, North America, and UK emission factors specific to the region published by local authorities are used. For 
other countries IEA v6 emission factors (01/2024) and GHG protocol v19 (04/2023) – eGRID 2021 have been used as appropriate to the source of 
electricity procured.

GRI 305-5

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
During the year, several initiatives were aligned to achieve the carbon targets which included those in building and IT 
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included energy efficiencies in HVAC systems, Uninterrupted Power Supply 
(UPS), and chillers.
 
HVAC system upgradation by installation of latest technology VRF systems which works on inverter technology.
 
Use of High Efficiency VFD based chillers.
 
Replacement of R-22 based & fixed compressor-based HVAC equipment with inverter technology-based equipment
 
Modular UPS which can modulate its capacity based on load and helps provide 90-95% efficiency, even at lower loads.
 
Life cycle based replacement of HVAC equipment like chillers, pumps and cooling towers has helped reduce our energy 
consumption.
 
Energy optimization in our operations through iOT based solutions, remote monitoring, analytics and automated feedback 
mechanism
 
As our commitment to energy conservation and management, 2 additional campuses in India were certified to ISO 
50001:2018 standards for Energy Management Systems (EnMS) in FY 2023-24, making it to a total of 22 campuses certified 
to ISO 50001:2018 across TCS India.
 
Green IT:
 
Initiatives in green Information Technology (IT) focused on data center and IT device consolidation and optimization to reduce 
the carbon footprint. The areas covered under green IT initiatives include IT energy optimization in data centers and equipment 
rooms. TCS’ data centers at Yantra Park (Thane) and Siruseri (Chennai) have a weighted average PUE of 1.7. Apart from the two 
main data centers, TCS also has 54 equipment rooms for business as usual (BAU) activities, wherein the weighted average PUE has 
reduced from 1.88 in FY 2022-23 to 1.76 in FY 2023-24.
 
The data centre at Yantra Park uses 100% Renewable Energy (RE) while the one at Siruseri uses 73% RE. The power consumed by 
the data centers at Yantra Park and Siruseri were 5.52 MWh and 1.65 MWh respectively during the reporting year FY 2023-24. In 
addition to the above, green attributes are considered in every IT asset procurement.
 
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever Energy™) initiative involves real time monitoring to optimize 
the operational energy efficiency across all offices. The smart, scalable, analytics driven IoT solution uses TCS Connected Universe 
Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone, enabling visualization of data acquired from various locations and 
facilities’ energy meters and sensors. Other energy optimization initiatives include:
 
IT Equipment optimization (rack consolidation, server consolidation and procurement of energy efficient devices)
 
UPS optimization (right sizing of UPS, replacement of old technology UPS with modular UPS)
 
Cooling optimization (switching off excess capacity cooling units, maintaining return set temperature at 24 +/- 1 deg C, 
replacing old with new technology cooling units) 
 
Leakage reduction (proper alignment of racks and perforated tiles, partitioning to reduce cooling area, cold aisle 
containment, blanking panel, active tiles and soft partitioning
 
Renewable Energy:
 
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year remained at 10.2 MWp contributing to 3 percent of total electricity use in 
FY 2023-24. A rooftop solar PV of 260 KWp has been planned for implementation in early FY 2024-25. The Company increased 
its renewable energy procurement through a) switch over to green tariffs for its operations in Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai, 
Kochi and Trivandrum branches, b) Green energy units procurement through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) at two locations 
in Chennai viz. Ambattur and Chennai One, Magnum, which cumulatively added about 6.5 million green units to the renewable 
energy portfolio). The renewable energy procurement has resulted in an increase in renewable energy use to 74 percent of total 
energy use.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
Carbon Neutrality:
 
The company became carbon neutral across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in North America, UK and Ireland, Europe, Asia Pacific 
(including Japan), Latin America, and Middle East & Africa in FY 2023-24.
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format77:
 
TCS being an IT services and consulting organization, TCS does not manufacture physical products and therefore do not use any 
hazardous or toxic chemicals in core processes. The Company have office or facility operations, and the waste is generated from 
the auxiliary processes used to run these facilities. Based on the nature of its services, TCS’ facilities mostly generate electronic, 
electrical, and municipal solid waste. Potentially hazardous and regulated wastes such as lead-acid batteries and waste lube oil 
are generated in relatively smaller proportions which are disposed through government-approved recyclers as per regulations. 
E-waste is disposed to government approved e-waste recyclers.
 
TCS is committed to sustain the best practices that have already been institutionalized like segregation of all recyclable wastes, 
100% compliance to management practices for regulated wastes like hazardous and e-waste and 100% recycling of office and 
packaging paper and plastic. All TCS campuses, owned offices and leased offices that have available space are provided with 
on-site food waste management facilities such as biodigesters and organic waste converters (OWCs) and garden waste is treated 
by vermicomposting at TCS campuses where feasible. The company targets to maximize the recycling and reuse of all waste 
categories to divert waste from landfill.
 
In FY 2023-24, TCS has obtained zero waste to landfill (ZWL) certification was obtained for TCS Deccan Park facility at Hyderabad 
after having achieved a diversion rate of over 99% waste from landfill. This was done as a pilot project for feasibility. 
 
TCS has operational control procedures (OCPs) for waste management and handling of different categories of wastes which is 
available on the TCS intranet that has set procedures for waste segregation, handling, storage, and disposal of different waste 
categories.
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23#
Total Waste generated [in metric tonnes (MT)]
Plastic waste (A)
137.3
46.7
E-waste (B)
297.5
415.0
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.8
0.8
Construction and demolition waste (D)
1,070.8
618.0
Battery waste (E)
261.0
387.0
Radioactive waste (F)
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
33.2
26.1
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
4,915.6
3,538.0
 
Quantity of office paper waste
308.0
119.0
 
Quantity of packaging paper waste (cardboards etc.)
136.0
199.0
 
Quantity of other paper waste generated (tissue paper rolls, food 
packaging)
338.0
 
Quantity of other packaging material (thermocol etc.)
10.5
 
Quantity of Miscellaneous waste (floor waste, toilet rolls, C-fold, cafeteria 
dry waste etc,.)
867.0
1,169.0
 
Quantity of other office scrap waste generated
197.0
137.0
 
Quantity of garden waste generated
1,167.0
1,261.0
 
Quantity of food waste
1,756.0
653.0
 
Quantity of sanitary waste
69.3
 
Quantity of coolant
0.2
 
Quantity of other dry waste generated
66.6
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
6,716.2
5,031.6

GRI 306-3, GRI 306-4, GRI 306-5

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23#
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total waste generated (MT) / Revenue from operations)
0.0000000028
0.0000000022
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated (MT) / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.0000000638
0.0000000511
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (waste in tonnes/FTE)
0.011
0.008
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 
Recycled **
 
- Battery
274.0
422.0
 
- E-waste
246.0
424.0
 
- Hazardous waste
24.1
25.0
 
- Non-Hazardous waste
3,038.0
1,685.0
 
- Plastic Waste
65.2
46.0
 
- Construction & Demolition waste
63.0
(ii) 
Re-used
 
- Construction & Demolition waste
1.0
0.2
 
- Non-Hazardous waste
288.0
(iii) Other recovery operations
Total
3,999.3
2,602.2
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 
Incineration
 
- Biomedical waste
0.8
0.8
 
- Non-hazardous waste
128.0
61.7
 
- Hazardous waste
2.4
(ii) 
Landfilling
 
- Non-hazardous waste
1,318.0
1,612.0
 
- Construction & demolition waste
936.0
591.0
(iii) Other disposal operations
Total
2,385.2
2,265.5
 
#Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
 
** 100% of the regulated waste (e-waste, battery waste) is disposed through recycling. The generated quantities, if remaining at 
the end of the financial year for disposal, are stored at the facilities and recycled through approved/ authorized vendors.
 
In FY 2023-24 waste data reported on a consolidated level where TCS have operational control. Therefore, the construction & 
demolition (C&D) waste from new construction or under construction sites are revised. The data for FY 2022-23 is accordingly 
restated.
 
All non hazardous waste categories have been restated for FY 2022-23 to make it consistent with the categories reported in 
FY 2023 -24.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by KPMG
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.78
 

GRI 306-2; GRI 3-3

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / 
clearances are required, please specify details in the following format79:
 
TCS has its campus - Kalinga Park, Bhubaneswar, Odisha which is located near Chandakka Wildlife Sanctuary. This is located in the 
Special Economic Zone (SEZ) developed by the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO). All necessary 
environmental clearances have been obtained for the campus.
 
All necessary environmental clearances have been obtained for the campus.
S/N
Location of operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval 
/ clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.

TCS Kalinga Park, Chandaka Industrial 
Estate, Bhubanewar, Odisha
Software Consultancy 
Services
Yes, the conditions of Environmental Clearance have 
been complied with.
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year80:
 
There were no Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) conducted in the FY 2023-24.
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format81:
 
Yes, TCS has complied with applicable environmental law/regulations / guidelines applicable in India. No fine/penalty/action was 
initiated against the entity under any of the applicable environmental laws/regulation/guidelines.
S/N
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the noncompliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
Leadership Indicators
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters)82:
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
 
(i) 
Name of the area:
 
 
In FY 2023-24, there are 13 stress zones identified as per the above criteria. 29 TCS offices are located in these zones. List of 
the 13 stress zones is as below:
Ambattur (1 TCS location)
Anekal (1 TCS location)
Bangalore (North) (1 TCS location)
Bangalore (East) (8 TCS locations) 
Bisrakh (3 TCS locations) 
10.
Gandhinagar (2 TCS locations) 
Gurgaon (4 TCS locations) 
11.
Indore (1 TCS location)
Karol Bagh (1 TCS location) 
12.
Lucknow (1 TCS location) 
Serilingampally (4 TCS locations) 
13.
Vadodara (1 TCS location)
Varanasi (1 TCS location)
 
(ii) Nature of operations: Software and IT operations

GRI 304-1 

GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1 

GRI 2-27 

GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4, GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-5

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Surface water
(ii) 
Groundwater
69,057
43,320
(iii) Third party water
6,83,525
5,05,970
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
(v) 
Others
1,013

Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
7,53,595
5,49,900
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
6,33,900
5,26,730
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed in KL/ turnover in INR)
0.00000026
0.00000023
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i) 
Into Surface water
 
No treatment
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) 
Into Groundwater
 
No treatment
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) Into Seawater
 
No treatment
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third-parties
 
No treatment 
Note: Wastewater sent for municipal treatment
27,118
20,150
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
Note: Tertiary treatment
92,577
3,020
(v) 
Others
 
No treatment
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
1,19,695
23,170
 
 
*Data mentioned above is for TCS India operations
 
 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by KPMG

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format83:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 Equivalent
4,98,509
3,66,606
Category 1 – Purchased goods & services
tCO2e
14,457
2,515
Category 2 – Capital goods
tCO2e
20,299
18,549
Category 3 – Fuel and energy related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) tCO2e
35,495
32,094
Category 4 – Upstream transportation and distribution
tCO2e
2,620
5,107
Category 5 – Waste generated in operations
tCO2e
1,179
1,070
Category 6 – Business travel
tCO2e
1,17,310
89,907
Category 7 – Employee commuting
tCO2e
3,07,149
2,17,364
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e/rupee 
turnover
0.00000021
0.00000016
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (Optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
(tCO2e/Per FTE)
0.79
0.60
 
*Data excludes accounting for <2% headcount, where TCS does not have operational control.
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by KPMG

GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4; There are some inclusions and modifications in estimating scope 3 carbon emissions during FY 2024 when compared to FY 
2023. Scope 3 emissions: 
Category 1 & 2: Emission factors (spend based) for purchased and capital goods are taken from the latest available US EPA (Supply Chain GHG 
Emission Factors for US Commodities and Industries v1.1.1) information for computer equipment, electrical equipment, office equipment, 
vehicles, and furniture items. The US EPA emission factors for categories 1 & 2 were adopted in FY23 and used in FY24 as well. There is a 
significant increase in Category 1 due to a new contract. Increase in category 2 is due to Return to Office (RTO) 
Category 3: The well to tank (WTT) emissions from the fuel used in stationary and mobile combustion such as diesel in DG sets and owned 
vehicles, LPG or PNG in cafeteria, natural gas for space heating/ cooling, fuel used in hired vehicles (cabs/ buses) are included in this category 
since FY 2023 and the same has been continued in FY2024 as well. There is an increase in emissions due to use of IEA emission factors for WTT 
and T&D in FY24. In FY23 the Company had used the DEFRA emission factors. 
Category 4: Until FY 2022, TCS had included only emissions from transportation of IT assets considering its relative significance compared to other 
supplies. While the Company continues to capture emissions from transportation of IT assets based on spend based emission factors, emissions 
related to transportation of non -IT supplies were included. The non – IT supplies covered to estimate category 4 emissions include cafeteria/ 
canteen supplies, water supplies through tankers, housekeeping material, and other stationary supplies. Emission factors are taken from DEFRA 
2023 for the transport emissions based on vehicle type and weight. There is a significant decrease in this category as the actual data were taken 
from the locations in FY24 compared to FY23 which was based on pilot study at few locations. The Company has also moved the waste disposal 
related transport emissions from Category 4 to 5 in FY24. . 
Category 5: No change in approach in FY 2024. The emissions are based on disposal mechanisms (e.g., recycling, reuse, landfill) for different 
categories of waste (plastic, metal, e-waste, batteries, food waste, garden waste etc.,) and have been computed based on emission factors from 
DEFRA 2023. Slight increase in emission due to increased RTO and also due to inclusion of waste disposal related transportation under this 
category. 
Category 6: In FY 2022, business travel included emissions from air and rail. In FY 2023 and FY 2024, business travel emissions also include hotel 
stays at various geographies during business travel. Relevant emission factors are taken from DEFRA 2023. There is an increase in emissions due 
to increase in business travel and accommodation due to resumption and RTO. 
Category 7: In FY 2024, the employee commute related carbon emission includes those from TCS hired vehicles for transport of employees, 
personal employee commute, public employee commute & work from home (WFH) emissions. There is an increase in employee commute due to 
RTO in FY 2023-24 compared to previous year.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities84.
S/N
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Chandaka Wildlife sanctuary authority 
has developed the trench followed 
by 5 feet wall with fencing along 
the border of the sanctuary so that 
the possibility of elephants crossing 
the trench is eliminated hence, any 
impact of TCS operations on wildlife 
is not expected. However, TCS has 
undertaken following initiatives:
Minimizing light pollution around 
the wildlife sanctuary
Internal initiatives within its 
campus towards biodiversity 
conservation and enhancement
Internal initiatives towards water 
and waste management
Installation of inward facing low 
intensity peripheral lights
Plantation of native/ indigenous 
plants, medicinal and spice garden, 
butterfly garden
Provision of organic waste 
technologies - Vermicomposting and 
organic waste converter
Provision of rainwater harvesting 
structure and sewage treatment 
plant (STP)
Inward direction peripheral lights 
of low intensity to avoid any 
impact on wildlife movement. 
High mast lights in TCS parking 
area are switched off after 11 pm.
Protection of native/medicinal, 
plant species as well as butterfly 
species.
Garden and food waste 
vermicomposting and organic 
waste composting technology 
has been installed to generate 
organic manure and it is reused 
for landscaping.
100% treatment and recycling of 
wastewater inside the premises.
Groundwater recharging pits for 
enriching the water table.
 
As a proactive initiative, TCS has included ‘Urban Biodiversity’ conservation as an integral part of TCS Environmental Sustainability 
Policy and its long-term plan for sustainable development. Biodiversity action plan is implemented across 18 TCS campuses in 
India to conserve and enhance urban biodiversity. Biodiversity mapping for various flora and fauna species is conducted on an 
annual basis. TCS campuses across India are home to over 600+ flora species and 200+ fauna species. 
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as 
outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S/N
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative

HVAC energy efficiency projects
Energy efficient AHU’s
VRF systems for 24x7 systems on 
variable load
2.83 Mn kWh energy savings

UPS based energy efficiency projects
UPS consolidation and Modular UPS 0.801 Mn kWh energy savings

Energy efficiency due to green buildings
Roof Underdeck Insulation
Roof tiling to increase SRI (solar 
reflective index)
CTI Certified Cooling Towers
Renewable Energy use 
LED luminaires 
Note : the above list is indicatively only
6.63 Mn kWh energy savings

Energy Monitoring and Analytics (Clever 
Energy + Resource Optimization Center)
Set Point modulation
Equipment Schedule Change
Operational Optimization
Alert based Monitoring
6.04 Mn kWh avoided energy 
consumption.
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
The business continuity and disaster management function in TCS supports the strategic objective of the organization, protects 
business interest, and proactively strengthens the organization’s ability to effectively respond to internal and external threats and 
enable seamless, continued delivery of critical business operations, in the event of any disruption. The end-to-end framework is 
effectively managed through defined policy, procedures, guidelines and through in-house developed tools that support planning 
and communication with all stakeholders. The framework is fully compliant and certified to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is 
integrated with TCS quality management system for consistent deployment across the organization.

GRI 304-2, GRI 304-3

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
TCS has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan 
outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be taken, evacuation procedures and post 
incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario.
 
TCS’ Business Continuity Plans, One for Every Customer Relationship are aligned to their customer requirements and then for 
all enabling functions (Like Admin, IS, HR etc.) are covered within Region (Branch), Global Delivery Centre and for the horizontal 
functions like (Corporate IS function). Each of them maintain their BCP plans aligned to their scope and holistic logical assimilation 
of all these are TCS Level Business continuity plans.
 
TCS’ Business Continuity Management (BCM) framework ensures that respective owners consider all contractual/ regulatory 
requirements, scope of services, demographics of operations, interdependencies of services and underlying assets, identifies 
business impact of loss/ interruption or disruption, and determines appropriate continuity strategy for the same. The associated 
potential risks are identified, assessed and appropriate response is devised to handle respective risks. Based on inputs, detailed 
plan is drafted outlaying the responsibilities for action owner to respond during any unforeseen eventualities for Site level outages 
and city level outages (resulting from an earthquakes, floods, cyclones or pandemic level impacts). All these plans are subjected 
to periodic testing to ascertain the realistic applicability of the plan. Also, there are provisions to capture precautions taken, 
evacuation procedures and post incident action plan which enables the continual learnings and incorporating the improvements 
and enhancing the process maturity as a continued process.
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard85.
 
No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts86.
 
TCS launched its Supplier Sustainability Assessment Platform during FY 2022-23. This year 17% of value chain partners (by 
spend) for sustainability criteria was successfully assessed. Through this platform, TCS will continue to engage its suppliers on 
sustainability assessments, training and awareness to help them improve their sustainability performance.
PRINCIPLE 7 : Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible 
and transparent
Essential Indicators
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations87
 
 
TCS is associated with various leading trade bodies/ industry chambers/ associations in India. All these associations have a PANIndia presence and work in close collaboration with governments- central and state. In addition, TCS collaborates with bilateral/ 
multilateral international chambers, based out of India, on multiple technology and trade related matters.
 
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to87
S/N
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)

National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM)
National

Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National

Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National

Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
National

Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI)
National

The Institute of Management Consultants of India (IMCI)
National

Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council (TEPC)
National

Indo American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)
National

Bombay Chamber of Commerce (BCCI)
National

IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry
National

GRI 308-2 

GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 

GRI 2-28

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Leadership Indicators
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S/N
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available 
in public 
domain? 
(Yes/No)
Frequency of 
Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available

SEZ notification 
regarding Rule 43A: 
‘Work from Home’ 
has been replaced 
by ‘Hybrid Working’ 
and further, the 
notification reiterates 
at 13 (b) that 
employer retains the 
right to choose the 
place of work for the 
specified duration
Industry meetings with Ministry 
of Electronics and Information & 
Technology (MeitY), Department 
of Commerce, Ministry of Finance 
(MoF)
Participation in round tables 
discussions and consultations 
organized by industry associations 
such as CII, FICCI, NASSCOM
Recommendations submitted to 
relevant government departments, 
trade associations on request
Yes
As and when 
required
https://www.
tcs.com/
investorrelations/
publicpolicypositionsdetails

Digital Personal Data 
Protection Act, 2023 
(DPDP Act): DPDP 
Act was passed in 
both houses of the 
Parliament and 
ratified as a law by the 
president in August 
2023.
In the absence of 
administrative rules 
under the Act, the law 
is still not operational.
Recommendations on 
transitional period for 
implementation of the 
DPDP Act
Participated in the consultation 
process facilitated by MeitY
Submitted recommendations 
on transitional period for 
implementation of the DPDP Act
Partially
As and when 
required

Amendment in 
SEZ Rules to allow 
developer of IT/ITeS 
SEZ to demarcate a 
portion of built-up 
area of IT/ITeS SEZ as 
domestic tariff area
Industry meetings with Ministry 
of Electronics and Information & 
Technology (MeitY), Department 
of Commerce, Ministry of Finance 
(MoF)
Participation in round tables 
discussions and consultations 
organized by industry associations 
such as CII, FICCI, NASSCOM
Recommendations submitted to 
relevant government departments, 
trade associations on request
Yes
As and when 
required

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year88.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by independent 
external agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant 
web link
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
S/N Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In INR)
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community89.
 
The TCS culture empowers communities and encourages open communication of concerns and grievances through various 
channels. In addition, individual regional leaders are connected at ground level and provide feedback from time to time. TCS 
sustainability policies available on the website details how it is documented, evaluated and addresses various stakeholder 
feedback, concerns and grievances. TCS monitors and evaluate its programs through a professionally designed ROI framework: 
i)’R’ - Reach- Reach is the number of direct beneficiaries reached through a program/ initiative ii)‘O’ - Outcome - Outcome is linked 
to the program and indicates intended result(s) of the program iii)’I’ - Impact - Impact refers to shifts in Mental, Socio-Cultural, 
Physical, Economic and Political spaces in the life of a beneficiary. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires 
capture the feedback which is duly implemented.
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers90:
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23 (%)
Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers*
6.0
4.1
Sourced directly from within India
33.5
26.4
 
*Restated due to change in approach to ensure comparability of information disclosed. In FY 2022-23, the total purchases were 
considered for TCS Limited branches (India), however, in FY 2023-24 total purchases were considered for TCS Limited branches 
(India and Overseas), including its Indian subsidiaries.
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2023-24 (%)
FY 2022-23 (%)
Rural
0.0
0.0
Semi-Urban
0.0
0.0
Urban
4.7
4.4
Metropolitan
95.3
95.6
 
(Places are categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
 
Numbers mentioned above are specific to India geography. 
 
Classification is based on the RBI Guidelines and Census 2011. As per the latest census all urban would be classified as 
Metropolitan based on the population index.
Leadership Indicators
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action plan

GRI 413-1 

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26, GRI 413-1 

GRI 204-1

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies:
S/N
Program
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent 
(in ` crore)

Youth 
Employment 
Program (YEP)
West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, 
Mizoram, Kerala, Haryana, Punjab, Andhra 
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, 
Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar 
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Bihar, 
Assam, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman And 
Diu, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Meghalaya, 
Rajasthan, Puducherry, Ladakh, Himachal 
Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Goa
Baramulla, Bastar, Bhadradri Kothagudem, 
Dahod, Dhenkanal, Dumka, East Singhbum, 
Ferozepur, Gadchiroli, Gajapati, Goalpara, 
Haridwar, Namsai, Nandurbar, Osmanabad, 
Pakur, Purnia, Raichur, Rajnandgaon, 
Ramanathapuram, Ramgarh, Ranchi, 
Ri Bhoi, Sahebganj, Siddharth Nagar, 
Sonbhadra, Vidisha, Virudhunagar, 
Visakhapatanam, Vizianagaram, Warangal, 
Wayanad, West Singhbhum, Y.S.R., Yadgir
3.3

BridgeIT
West Bengal, Mizoram, Haryana, 
Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar 
Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Karnataka
Chhatarpur, Dholpur, Gajapati, Latehar, 
Lohardaga, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, Raichur, 
Ramgarh, Ranchi, Rayagada, Yadgir
1.9

Literacy as a 
Service (LaaS)
Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, 
Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, 
Haryana, Punjab, Delhi
Chandauli, Dahod
0.9

Go Innovate 
Together (goIT)
Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, 
Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Ladakh, West 
Bengal, Bihar
Bahraich, Balrampur, Chandauli, 
Chitrakoot, East Singhbum, Fatehpur, 
Shravasti, Siddharth Nagar, Sonbhadra, 
Visakhapatanam, Y.S.R.
0.8

Ignite My 
Future (IMF)
West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, 
Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Andhra 
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya 
Pradesh, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, 
Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli and Daman and Diu, Rajasthan, 
Jharkhand, Kerala, Bihar, Haryana, Punjab, 
Delhi
Bahraich, Balrampur, Bhadradri 
Kothagudem, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, 
Dahod, Dhenkanal, East Singhbum, 
Fatehpur, Gadchiroli, Gaya, Gumla, Kanker, 
Karauli, Kondagaon, Mahasamund, 
Muzaffarpur, Narmada, Osmanabad, 
Raichur, Shravasti, Siddharth Nagar, 
Sonbhadra, Sukma, Udam Singh Nagar, 
Vidisha, Visakhapatanam, Vizianagaram, 
West Singhbhum, Y.S.R.
0.6
 
The amount mentioned above is for the entire program across all districts (not only the aspirational ones).
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
 
While procuring goods/services from MSME vendors, TCS treats MSME vendors at par with non MSME vendors. However, 
TCS follows preferential payment norms for MSME vendors.
 
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
Vendors qualified as MSME by Government agency.
 
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
Please refer to answer for Q.4 in Principle 8, Essential indicators.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S/N
Intellectual Property based on traditonal 
knowledge
Owned / Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating 
Benefit share
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S/N
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited from CSR 
projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups

Youth Employment Program (YEP)
23,297

BridgeIT
3,12,523

Literacy as a Service (LaaS)
20,342

Go Innovate Together (goIT)
1,21,648

Ignite My Future (IMF)
3,19,175

PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback91.

mechanisms to report complaints or feedback.
 
Each customer concern is addressed with utmost care at all levels. TCS teams acknowledge, analyze the incidents and develop an 
action plan to resolve it. The team engages with the customer to validate the action plan and regularly updates customers about 
the progress of action planned.
 
TCS has a structured approach to receive feedback from customers periodically. Such feedback is analyzed for improvements and 
action plans are implemented to ensure utmost customer satisfaction.
 
For privacy specific complaints, they can also raise incidents with TCS’ Data Protection or Privacy Officers. The contact details of 
the data protection and privacy officers are available at https://www.tcs.com/who-we-are/legal/privacy-policy-commitment or as 
otherwise notified to the customers from time to time.
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal 

GRI 2-16, GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Remarks
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy

TCS treats customers 
as consumers. 
These complaints 
pertain to accidental 
data sharing 
with unintended 
recipients

TCS treats customers 
as consumers. 
These complaints 
pertain to accidental 
data sharing 
with unintended 
recipients
Advertising
Cyber-security
NIL
Delivery of essential services
NIL
Restrictive Trade Practices
NIL
Unfair Trade Practices
NIL
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy92.
 
TCS has Information Security policy covering cybersecurity and is approved by top management. Policy is available at TCS website. 
https://www.tcs.com/who-we-are/legal/security-policy
 
TCS has deployed cybersecurity framework which is aligned with NIST Cybersecurity Framework93
 
From data privacy aspects, TCS’ commitment to privacy is espoused in TCS Global Privacy Policy. This is accessible at 
https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy-commitment. TCS has defined and implemented a Global Privacy policy that is applicable 
to all its legal entities, branches, lines of businesses, and functions. The global privacy policy is a “gold standard of privacy” 
addressing applicable privacy regulations and based on inputs from industry bodies dealing with privacy. The Global Privacy policy 
covers all stakeholders across the value chain including – employees (full-time and contractual), customers, partners, vendors/
suppliers, and any other stakeholder whose Personal Data is processed. All third parties (vendors/suppliers) are engaged / 
contracted with adequate due diligence, and commitment towards privacy obligations.
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by 
regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
NIL
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
Number of instances of data breaches 
 
 
NIL
 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
 
 
As a data fiduciary, TCS has not had any data breach incidents involving personally identifiable information of customers in 
FY 2023-24.
 
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
 
 

GRI 2-23 

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) CSF is Cybersecurity framework published by NIST (Standards Institute in USA) which 
enables organization to improve Cybersecurity for its critical infrastructure.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available). 
 
www.tcs.com
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
Each customer relationship in TCS has a business continuity mechanism to handle any disruption of services/products and a 
suitable communication plan.
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/ 
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? 
(Yes/No)
 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
2nd Floor, Block T2 (B Wing), 
Lodha Excelus, Apollo Mills Compound, 
N. M. Joshi Marg, Mahalaxmi 
Mumbai - 400 011 India 
 
 
 
Telephone: +91 (22) 3989 6000 
Fax: +91 (22) 3090 2210 
Internet: www.kpmg.com/in 
 
1 | P a g e 
 
 
Independent Practitioners’ Reasonable Assurance Report 
 
To the Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
Assurance report on the sustainability disclosures in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (BRSR) Core Format 1 (called ‘Identified Sustainability Information’ (ISI) of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited (the ‘Company’) for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
The ISI is included in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting of the Company for the 
period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
Opinion 
We have performed a reasonable assurance engagement on whether the Company’s sustainability 
disclosures in the BRSR Core Format (refer to Annexure 1) for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 
2024 has been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria (refer table below). 
 
Identified 
Sustainability 
Information 
(ISI) subject to 
assurance 
Period 
subject 
assurance 
Page number 
in the Annual 
Report 
Reporting criteria 
BRSR 
Core 
(refer Annexure 
 
 
 
From 1 April 


March 2024 
127 to 166 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements 
(SEBI LODR) 
Guidance notes for BRSR format issued by 
SEBI 
World Resource Institute (WRI) / World 
Business 
Council 
for 
Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Protocol (A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standards) 
 
 
This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners, engineers 
and environmental and social professionals. 
 
1 Notified by SEBI vide circular number SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July 2023 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
2 | P a g e 
 
In our opinion, the company’s Identified Sustainability Information on pages 127 to 166 of the Annual 
Report for the period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024, subject to reasonable assurance is prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements (SEBI LODR) and basis of preparation set out in 
page 128 Section A: General Disclosures 13 of the Integrated Annual Report. 
We do not express an assurance opinion on information in respect of any other information included in the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024 or linked from the Sustainability Information or from the Integrated Annual 
Report 2023, including any images, audio files or embedded videos. 
 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities” section of our 
report. 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). 
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM) 1, Quality Management for Firms 
that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services 
Engagements, issued by the IAASB. This standard requires the firm to design, implement and operate a 
system of quality management, including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. 
Other information 
Additionally, we have performed a limited assurance engagement on select BRSR and GRI indicators and 
issued an independent assurance report on 08 May 2024. 
Our report thereon is included with the other information. 
Our reasonable assurance opinion on the ISI does not extend to other information that accompanies or 
contains the ‘ISI and our assurance report’ (hereafter referred to as “other information”). We have read the 
other information, but we have not performed any procedures with respect to the other information. 
 
Other matter 
Select BRSR Core attributes of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 were assured by the 
previous assurance practitioner who had expressed an unmodified opinion on 09 June 2023. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
3 | P a g e 
 
Intended use or purpose 
The ISI and our reasonable assurance report are intended for users who have reasonable knowledge of the 
BRSR Core attributes, the reporting criteria and ISI and who have read the information in the ISI with 
reasonable diligence and understand that the ISI is prepared and assured at appropriate levels of materiality. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
Responsibilities for the identified Sustainability Information (ISI) 
The management of the Company acknowledge and understand their responsibility for: 
designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation of the ISI that is 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the ISI, taking into account applicable laws and 
regulations, if any, related to reporting on the ISI, identification of key aspects, engagement with 
stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of the ISI in accordance with the reporting criteria; 
disclosure of the applicable criteria used for preparation of the ISI in the relevant report/statement; 
preparing/properly calculating the ISI in accordance with the reporting criteria; and 
ensuring the reporting criteria is available for the intended users with relevant explanation; 
establishing targets, goals and other performance measures, and implementing actions to achieve such 
targets, goals and performance measures; 
responsible for providing the details of the management personnel who takes ownership of the ISI 
disclosed in the report; 
ensuring compliance with law, regulation or applicable contracts; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances; 
identifying and describing any inherent limitations in the measurement or evaluation of information 
subject to assurance in accordance with the reporting criteria; 
preventing and detecting fraud; 
selecting the content of the ISI, including identifying and engaging with intended users to understand 
their information needs; 
informing us of other information that will be included with the ISI; 
supervision of other staff involved in the preparation of the ISI 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the reporting process for the Company’s ISI. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
4 | P a g e 
 
Inherent limitations in preparing the ISI 
The preparation of the company’s BRSR information requires the management to establish or interpret the 
criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be included, and make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported information. 
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR Core metrics, some of which are estimates, is subject to 
substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example, GHG emissions, water footprint, energy 
footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion does not reduce the uncertainty 
in the amounts and metrics. 
 
Our responsibilities 
We are responsible for: 
Planning and performing the engagement to obtain reasonable assurance on the sustainability 
disclosures in the BRSR Core are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
in accordance with the Reporting Criteria in line with the section above. 
Forming an independent opinion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, and 
Reporting our reasonable assurance opinion to the Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited. 
 
Exclusions 
Our assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we will not express a opinion on the same: 
Operations of the Company other than those mentioned in the “Scope of Assurance”. 
Aspects of the BRSR and the data/information (qualitative or quantitative) other than the ISI. 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future 
intentions provided by the Company. 
 
Summary of the work we performed as the basis for our opinion 
We exercised professional judgment and maintained professional skepticism throughout the engagement. 
We designed and performed our procedures to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our reasonable assurance opinion. 
Reasonable assurance opinion 
The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depended on our judgment, including an 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the information subject to reasonable assurance, whether 
due to fraud or error. We identified and assessed the risks of material misstatement through understanding 
the Information subject to reasonable assurance and the engagement circumstances. We also obtained an 
understanding of the internal control relevant to the information subject to reasonable assurance in order to 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
5 | P a g e
design procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of internal controls. In carrying out our engagement, we: 
assessed the suitability of the criteria used by the company in preparing the reasonable assurance
information;
evaluated the appropriateness of reporting policies, quantification methods and models used in the
preparation of the information subject to reasonable assurance and the reasonableness of estimates
made by the company; and
evaluated the overall presentation of the information subject to reasonable assurance.
Shivananda Shetty 
Partner 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
Date: 08 May 2024 
Place: Mumbai 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
 
 
6 | P a g e 
 
Appendix – 1 
BRSR Core attributes 
BRSR Indicator 
Type of Assurance 
P6 E1- Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) 
Reasonable 
P6 E1- Details of total energy intensity 
Reasonable 
P6 E3- Provide details of water withdrawal by source 
Reasonable 
P6 E4- Provide details of water discharged 
Reasonable 
P6 E3- Provide details of water consumption 
Reasonable 
P6 E7- Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 
Reasonable 
P6 E7- Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 
Reasonable 
P6 E7 - Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) intensity Reasonable 
P6 E9- Provide details related to waste generated by category of waste 
Reasonable 
P6 E9 - Provide details related to waste recovered through recycling, re-using or 
other recovery operations 
Reasonable 
P6 E9- Provide details related to waste disposed by nature of disposal method 
Reasonable 
P3 E11-Details of safety related incidents including lost time injury frequency rate, 
recordable work-related injuries, no. of fatalities 
Reasonable 
P9 E7- Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage of total 
data breaches or cyber security events 
Reasonable 
P5 E7- Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, including complaints reported, 
complaints as a % of female employees, and complaints upheld 
Reasonable 
P1 E9-Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, dealers, and 
related parties Loans and advances & investments with related parties 
Reasonable 
P1 E8- Number of days of accounts payable 
Reasonable 
P8 E5- Job creation in smaller towns 
Reasonable 
P3 E1c- Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers – cost 
incurred as a % of total revenue of the company 
Reasonable 
P5 E3b- Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid 
Reasonable 
P8 E4 - Input material sourced from following sources as % of total purchases – 
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers and from within India 
Reasonable 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which 
comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2024, 
and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including 
other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of 
changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for 
the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the 
consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give 
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group as at 31 March 2024, of its consolidated profit and 
other comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of 
the Act, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit 
evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matter(s)
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts where revenue is recognized using percentage of completion method
See Note 5(a) and Note 12 to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price contracts, 
wherein, revenue is recognized using the percentage 
of completion computed as per the input method 
based on the Group’s estimate of contract costs.
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price 
contracts where the percentage of completion is 
used as a key audit matter since -
there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud 
risk around the accuracy and existence of 
revenues recognised considering the customised 
and complex nature of these contracts and 
significant inputs of IT systems
Our audit procedures included the following:
Obtained an understanding of the systems, processes and controls 
implemented by the Group for recording and computing revenue 
and the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue 
balances.
Involvement of our Information technology(‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 
Assessed the IT environment in which the business systems 
operate and tested system controls over computation of revenue 
recognised;
 
Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of cost and revenue 
reports generated by the system;

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
application of revenue recognition accounting 
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with customers) is complex and involves a 
number of key judgments and estimates in 
mainly identifying performance obligations, 
related transaction price and estimating the 
future cost-to- completion of these contracts, 
which is used to determine the percentage 
of completion of the relevant performance 
obligation;
these contracts may involve onerous obligations 
which requires critical assessment of 
foreseeable losses to be made by the Group; 
and
at year-end, significant amount of work in 
progress (Contract assets), related to these 
contracts are recognised on the balance sheet.
 
Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and 
budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/
changes to costs incurred; and
 
Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the 
estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective 
projects.
On selected specific and statistical samples of contracts, we tested that 
the revenue recognized is in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard including –
 
Evaluated the identification of performance obligations and the 
ascribed transaction price;
 
For testing the Group’s computation of the estimation of contract 
costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
 
 
assessed that the estimates of costs to complete were 
reviewed and approved by appropriate designated 
management personnel;
 
 
performed a retrospective analysis of costs incurred 
with estimated costs to identify significant variations and 
challenged whether those variations are required to be 
considered in estimating the remaining costs to complete the 
contract;
 
 
assessed the appropriateness of work in progress (contract 
assets) on balance sheet date by evaluating the underlying 
documentation to identify possible changes in estimated 
costs to complete the remaining performance obligations; 
and
 
 
inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to 
determine reasonableness of contract costs.
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s 
Annual report, but does not include the financial statements 
and auditor’s reports thereon. The Holding Company’s Annual 
report is expected to be made available to us after the date of 
this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated financial statements in term of the requirements 
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state 
of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other comprehensive 
income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. The respective Management and 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
the assets of each company and for preventing and detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application 
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Management and 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for assessing 
the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of consolidated financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other companies included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
 
 
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements.
 
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
examination of those books except for the 
matters stated in paragraph 2(B)(f) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
 
 
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and the 
consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account maintained for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
 
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with the Ind AS 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
 
 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on 1 April 2024 to 10 April 2024 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and on the basis of written 
representations received by the management 
from directors of its subsidiaries which are 
incorporated in India, as on 31 March 2024 to 10 
April 2024, none of the directors of the Group 
companies incorporated in India is disqualified 
as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
 
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2(A)(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2(B)(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
 
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 
2024 on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group. Refer income tax liabilities disclosed in the 
consolidated balance sheet along with Note 20 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts during the year ended 31 March 2024.
 
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company during the year ended 
31 March 2024. There are no amounts which 
are required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India during the year 
ended 31 March 2024.
 
 
(i) 
The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Holding Company or any of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(ii) The management of the Holding Company 
represented that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been received 
by the Holding Company or any of its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Holding Company or 
any of its subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India shall directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(iii) Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain 
any material misstatement.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Holding Company during the year and until the 
date of this audit report is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
 
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India during the year in respect of the same 
declared for the previous year is in accordance 
with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to payment of dividend.
 
 
 
As stated in Note 30 to the financial statements, 
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year which 
is subject to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with Section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of 
dividend.
 
 
The reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
from 1 April 2023.
 
 
 
Based on our examination which included 
test checks, and as communicated by the 
respective auditor of three subsidiaries, except 
for the instances mentioned below, the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India have used accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account, 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the respective softwares:
 
 
 
In case of the Holding Company and its 
three subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India, the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
database level to log any direct data changes 
for the accounting softwares used for 
maintaining the books of account relating 
to payroll and certain non-editable fields/
tables of the accounting software used for 
maintaining general ledger.
 
 
 
ii. 
In case of the Holding Company, the feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was 
not enabled at the database level to log 
any direct data changes for the accounting 
software used for maintaining the books of 
account relating to consolidation.
 
 
 
iii. 
In case of the Holding Company and its 
three subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India, the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
application layer of the accounting softwares 
relating to revenue, trade receivables and 
general ledger for the period 1 April 2023 to 
13 November 2023 and relating to property, 
plant and equipment for the period 1 April 
2023 to 14 December 2023. Further, in case 
of a subsidiary incorporated in India, the 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the application 
layer of the accounting software relating 
to payroll for the period 1 April 2023 to 15 
February 2024.
 
 
 
iv. 
In case of a subsidiary incorporated in India, 
as communicated by the auditor of such 
subsidiary, the feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility of the accounting 
software used for maintaining general ledger 
was not enabled for the period 1 April 2023 
to 30 April 2023.
 
 
 
Further, for the periods where audit trail (edit log) 
facility was enabled and operated throughout 
the year for the respective accounting softwares, 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with.
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid 
during the current year by the Holding Company to 
its directors is in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any 
director by the Holding Company is not in excess of 
the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India have not 
paid any remuneration to its directors during the year. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed 
other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which 
are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDHA1961

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 of 
the Holding Company did not include any unfavourable answers or qualifications or adverse remarks. In respect of the following 
entities the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor till the date of principal auditor’s report:
Name of the Subsidiaries 
CIN
MP Online Limited
U72400MP2006PLC018777
APT Online Limited
U75142TG2002PLC039671
C-Edge Technologies Limited
U72900MH2006PLC159038
Mahaonline Limited
U72900MH2010PLC206026

U72300MH2007PLC240002
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDHA1961

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2A(g) under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Holding Company”) as of and for the year 
ended 31 March 2024, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding 
Company and such companies incorporated in India under the 
Companies Act 2013, which are its subsidiary companies, as of 
that date.
In our opinion, the Holding Company and such companies 
incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, have, 
in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements and such internal financial 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2024, based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by such companies considering 
the essential components of such internal controls stated in 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements criteria 
established by the respective company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the 
respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements include those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and directors of 
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place : Mumbai
Membership No: 060154
Date : 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDHA1961

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
 
Property, plant and equipment
10(a)
9,376 
10,230 
 
Capital work-in-progress
10(a)
1,564 
1,234 
 
Right-of-use assets

7,886 
7,560 
 
Goodwill
10(b)
1,832 
1,858 
 
Other intangible assets
10(c)

Financial assets
 
 Investments
8(a)

 Trade receivables
 
 Billed
8(b)

 Unbilled

 Loans
8(e)

 Other financial assets
8(f)
3,272 
2,149 
 
Deferred tax assets (net)

3,403 
3,307 
 
Income tax assets (net)
1,600 
2,583 
 
Other assets
10(d)
3,596 
2,806 
Total non-current assets
33,465 
33,381 
Current assets
 
Inventories
10(e)

Financial assets
 
 Investments
8(a)
31,481 
36,897 
 
 Trade receivables
 
 Billed
8(b)
44,434 
41,049 
 
 Unbilled
9,143 
8,905 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents
8(c)
9,016 
7,123 
 
 Other balances with banks
8(d)
4,270 
3,909 
 
 Loans
8(e)

1,325 
 
 Other financial assets
8(f)
1,703 
1,319 
 
Income tax assets (net)

Other assets
10(d)
12,267 
9,707 
Total current assets
1,12,984
1,10,270
TOTAL ASSETS
1,46,449
1,43,651
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
 
Share capital
8(m)

Other equity
90,127
90,058 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
90,489 
90,424 
 
Non-controlling interests

Total equity
91,319 
91,206 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
 
Financial liabilities
 
 Lease liabilities
6,516 
6,203 
 
 Other financial liabilities
8(h)

Employee benefit obligations

Deferred tax liabilities (net)

Unearned and deferred revenue

1,003 
Total non-current liabilities
9,026 
8,887 
Current liabilities
 
Financial liabilities
 
 Lease liabilities
1,505 
1,485 
 
 Trade payables
8(g)
9,981 
10,515 
 
 Other financial liabilities
8(h)
8,362 
9,068 
 
Unearned and deferred revenue
3,640 
3,843 
 
Other liabilities
10(f)
6,524 
4,892 
 
Provisions
10(g)

Employee benefit obligations

4,519 
4,065 
 
Income tax liabilities (net)
11,433 
9,345 
Total current liabilities
46,104 
43,558 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1,46,449
1,43,651
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from operations

2,40,893
2,25,458
Other income

4,422 
3,449 
TOTAL INCOME
2,45,315
2,28,907
Expenses
 
Employee benefit expenses

1,40,131
1,27,522
 
Cost of equipment and software licences
15(a)
3,702 
1,881 
 
Finance costs

Depreciation and amortisation expense
4,985 
5,022 
 
Other expenses
15(b)
32,764 
36,796 
TOTAL EXPENSES
1,82,360
1,72,000
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX
62,955 
 56,907 
Exceptional item
 
Settlement of legal claim

PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 61,997 
 56,907 
Tax expense
 
Current tax

15,864 
 14,757 
 
Deferred tax 

(153)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
15,898 
 14,604 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
 46,099 
 42,303 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans
(2)

Net change in fair values of investments in equity shares carried at fair value 
through OCI
 (6)
 (2)
 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 (11)
 (75)
 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 
Net change in fair values of investments other than equity shares carried at fair 
value through OCI

 (679)
 
Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 

(25)
 
Net change in time value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

Exchange differences on translation of financial statements of foreign operations

 Income tax on items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
(39)

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
46,336 
 42,795 
Profit for the year attributable to: 
Shareholders of the Company
 45,908 
42,147 
Non-controlling interests

 46,099 
 42,303 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company

Non-controlling interests
(62)
 (1)

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
46,207 
42,640 
Non-controlling interests

46,336 
 42,795 
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)

125.88 
115.19 
Weighted average number of equity shares
364,68,51,755
365,90,51,373
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL 
(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2023
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2023
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year*
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024

 (4)

(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
 April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023

 *Refer note 8(m).
B. OTHER EQUITY 
(` crore)
 Reserves and surplus 
 Items of other comprehensive income 
 Equity 
attributable to 
shareholders of 
the Company 
 Noncontrolling 
interests 
 Total 
equity 
 Capital 
reserve 
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
 Special 
Economic Zone 
re-investment 
reserve 
 Retained 
earnings 
 Statutory 
reserve 
 Investment 
revaluation 
reserve 
Cash flow 
hedging reserve 
 Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
Intrinsic 
value 
 Time 
value 
Balance as at April 1, 2023

 11,809 
74,722 

(28)
 2,848 
 90,058 

90,840 
Profit for the year
45,908 
 45,908 

46,099 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)
(13)

(62)

Total comprehensive income
45,895 

 46,207 

46,336 
Dividend
(25,137)
(25,137)
(81)
(25,218)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1
(46)
(46)
(46)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares1
(3,959)
(3,959)
(3,959)
Buy-back of equity shares1

(17,000)
(16,996)
(16,996)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
9,875 
(9,875)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
(5,450)
5,450 
Transfer to reserves
(17)

Balance as at March 31, 2024

 16,234 
70,033 

(18)
 2,955 
90,127

90,957
Balance as at April 1, 2022

 7,287 
 78,158 

(53)
 2,189 
 88,773 

 89,480 
Profit for the year
 42,147 
 42,147 

 42,303 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(447)
(19)

(1)

Total comprehensive income
 42,422 
(447)
(19)

 42,640 

 42,795 
Dividend
(41,347)
(41,347)
(63)
(41,410)
Purchase of non-controlling interests
(8)
(8)
(17)
(25)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve
8,380 
(8,380)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
(3,858)
3,858 
Transfer to reserves

(19)
Balance as at March 31, 2023

 11,809 
 74,722 

(28)
 2,848 
90,058

90,840
 
1Refer note 8(m).
 
Loss of ₹13 crore and gain of ₹275 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.
 
Total equity (primarily retained earnings) includes ₹1,612 crore and ₹1,601 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a) Capital reserve
 
The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments 
to capital reserve. 
(b) Capital redemption reserve
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve 
is created when company purchases its own shares out of 
free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the 
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred 
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(c) Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is 
created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of 
the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 
1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Group for acquiring 
new assets for the purpose of its business as per the terms 
of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
(d) Retained earnings
 
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated 
earnings of the Group as on the balance sheet date.
(e) Statutory reserve
 
Statutory reserves are created to adhere to requirements of 
applicable laws and will be utilised in accordance with the 
said laws.
(f) 
Investment revaluation reserve
 
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses 
arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments 
on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated 
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss 
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
(g) Cash flow hedging reserve
 
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative 
effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in 
fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments 
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will 
be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period 
in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
(h) Foreign currency translation reserve
 
The exchange differences arising from the translation of 
financial statements of foreign operations with functional 
currency other than Indian Rupee is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and is presented within equity in 
the foreign currency translation reserve.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
46,099 
42,303 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
4,985 
5,022 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses and doubtful 
advances (net)

Tax expense
15,898 
14,604 
Net (gain) / loss on lease modification
(7)

Unrealised foreign exchange gain
(17)
(189)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(7)
(26)
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
(312)
(224)
Interest income
(3,781)
(3,248)
Dividend income
(41)
(15)
Finance costs

Operating profit before working capital changes
 63,709 
 59,148 
Net change in
Inventories
(8)
Trade receivables
 
Billed
(3,327)
(6,501)
 
Unbilled
(5)
(1,182)
Loans and other financial assets
(301)

Other assets 
(3,160)
(25)
Trade payables
(632)
2,036 
Unearned and deferred revenue
(740)

Other financial liabilities
(695)
1,417 
Other liabilities and provisions
1,978 
(254)
Cash generated from operations
 56,827 
 54,931 
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(12,489)
(12,966)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 44,338 
 41,965 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
(9,471)
(4,548)
Inter-corporate deposits placed
(8,293)
Purchase of investments#
(141,011)
(129,745)
Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
(2,202)
(2,532)
Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets
(30)
(213)
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
(442)
(355)
Proceeds from bank deposits 
8,089 
6,252 
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits 

13,654 
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments#
1,47,204
1,22,687
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets

Interest received
2,990 
3,080 
Dividend received

Net cash generated from investing activities
6,026 

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
(1,614)
(1,515)
Interest paid
(699)
(779)
Dividend paid
(25,137)
(41,347)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests
(81)
(63)
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
(425)
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m))
(46)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m))
(3,959)
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m))
(17,000)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (48,536)
 (47,878)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 
 1,828 
 (5,874)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
7,123 
12,488 
Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 9,016 
 7,123 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
2,804 
2,114 
 
In deposit accounts 
6,212 
4,999 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit

 9,016 
 7,123 
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
#Purchase of investments include `297 crore and `165 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and proceeds 
from disposal / redemption of investments include `163 crore and `161 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Corporate information
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and 
its subsidiaries (collectively together with employee 
welfare trusts referred to as “the Group”) provide IT 
services, consulting and business solutions and have been 
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses 
in their transformation journeys. The Group offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of 
IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This is 
delivered through its unique Location-Independent Agile 
delivery model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in 
software development.
 
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at March 
31, 2024, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company 
owned 71.74% of the Company’s equity share capital. 
 
The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2024.
Statement of compliance
 
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed under 
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as 
amended from time to time.
Basis of preparation
 
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. All 
assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Group has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months. 
 
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
 
The functional currency of the Company and its Indian 
subsidiaries is the Indian Rupee (`). The functional currency 
of foreign subsidiaries is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at exchange 
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Foreign 
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities 
are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the 
balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses arising 
on settlement and restatement are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
 
The material accounting policy information related to 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements have 
been discussed in the respective notes.
Basis of consolidation
 
The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled 
by it.
 
The Company establishes control when; it has power over 
the entity, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect the entity’s returns by using its power over relevant 
activities of the entity.
 
Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated from 
the date control commences until the date control ceases.
 
The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, during the year 
are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition and 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
 
The financial statements of the Group companies are 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis and all inter-company 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.
 
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do 
not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
transactions. The carrying amount of the Company’s 
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted 
to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which 
the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value 
of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly 
in equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.
 
Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency 
other than the functional currency of the Company have 
been translated using exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss of such 
entities has been translated using weighted average 
exchange rates. Translation adjustments have been 
reported as foreign currency translation reserve in the 
statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation 
is disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, 
significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
amount of exchange differences related to that foreign 
operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of 
profit and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Use of estimates and judgements
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management of the Group to 
make estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of consolidated financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
 
The Group uses the following critical accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions in preparation of 
its consolidated financial statements:
 
(a) Revenue recognition
 
 
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised 
using percentage-of-completion method. The 
Group estimates the future cost-to-completion of 
the contracts which is used to determine degree of 
completion of the performance obligation.
 
 
The Group exercises judgement for identification of 
performance obligations, determination of transaction 
price, ascribing the transaction price to each distinct 
performance obligation and in determining whether 
the performance obligation is satisfied at a point 
in time or over a period of time. These judgements 
have been explained in detail under the revenue 
recognition note (Refer note 12).
 
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
 
 
The Group reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in future periods (Refer note 
10(a)).
 
(c) Impairment of goodwill
 
 
The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash 
generating units (CGUs) based on the future cash 
flows after considering current economic conditions 
and trends, estimated future operating results and 
growth rate and anticipated future economic and 
regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are 
developed using internal forecasts. The discount rates 
used for the CGUs represent the weighted average 
cost of capital based on the historical market returns 
of comparable companies (Refer note 10(b)).
 
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
(e) Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair 
value)
 
 
Measurement of impairment of financial assets 
require use of estimates, which have been explained 
in the note on financial assets, financial liabilities and 
equity instruments, under impairment of financial 
assets (other than at fair value) (Refer note 8)).
 
(f) 
Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
 
 
The Group uses judgements based on the relevant 
rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, 
allowances and disallowances which is exercised while 
determining the provision for income tax. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and tax 
losses can be utilised. Accordingly, the Group exercises 
its judgement to reassess the carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting 
period.
 
(g) Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
 
The Group estimates the provisions that have present 
obligations as a result of past events and it is probable 
that outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end 
of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect 
the current best estimates. 
 
 
The Group uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are 
disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising 
from past events, the existence of which will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Group or a present obligation 
that arises from past events where it is either not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the 
amount cannot be made. Contingent assets are 
neither recognised nor disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
(h) Employee benefits 
 
 
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the 
nature of defined benefit requires the Group to use 
assumptions. These assumptions have been explained 
under employee benefits note (Refer note 14).

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
(i) 
Leases
 
 
The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to 
be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The Group uses significant judgement in assessing the 
lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate. 
 
 
The Group determines the lease term as the 
noncancellable period of a lease, together with both 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease 
if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option; and periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to 
exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a 
lease, or not to exercise an option to terminate a lease, 
it considers all relevant facts and circumstances that 
create an economic incentive for the Group to exercise 
the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the 
option to terminate the lease. The Group revises the 
lease term if there is a change in the noncancellable 
period of a lease. 
 
 
The discount rate is generally based on the 
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being 
evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
Recent pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. For the year ended March 31, 2024, 
MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to 
the existing standards applicable to the Group. 
Business combinations
 
The Group accounts for its business combinations under 
acquisition method of accounting. Acquisition related costs 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition 
for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the 
acquisition date.
 
Purchase consideration paid in excess of the fair value 
of net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Where 
the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities exceed 
the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values 
of the net assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is 
recognised as capital reserve.
 
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, 
the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the 
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the 
non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in 
equity of subsidiaries.
 
Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in 
entities that are under common control are accounted at 
historical cost. The difference between any consideration 
given and the aggregate historical carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in 
shareholders’ equity.
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability. 
 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value to be cash 
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances 
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
 
Financial assets at amortised cost
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost if these financial assets are held within a business 
whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the 
financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The Group has made an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments 
not held for trading in other comprehensive income.
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss unless they are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial 
recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in 
statement of profit and loss. 
 
Financial liabilities
 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
 
Equity instruments
 
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual 
interest in the assets of the company after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are 
recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.
 
Derivative accounting
 
Instruments in hedging relationship
 
 
The Group designates certain foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts as 
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange risks. 
These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
 
 
The Group uses hedging instruments that are 
governed by the financial risk management policy as 
approved by the Risk Management Committee. The 
policy provides principles on the use of such financial 
derivatives consistent with the risk management 
strategy of the company and its subsidiaries. While 
determining the appropriate hedge ratio, the Group 
takes into consideration the prevailing macroeconomic conditions, the availability and liquidity of 
the hedging instruments, tolerance levels for hedge 
ineffectiveness and the costs of hedging. The hedging 
activities are reviewed by the Risk Management 
Committee every quarter and future course of action 
is determined.
 
 
The hedge instruments are designated and 
documented as hedges at the inception of the 
contract. The Group determines the existence of 
an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no 
longer expected to occur, then the amounts that have 
been accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the 
designated hedging instrument is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated under 
the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
 
 
The Group separates the intrinsic value and time value 
of an option and designates as hedging instruments 
only the change in intrinsic value of the option. 
The change in fair value of the intrinsic value and 
time value of an option is recognised in the other 
comprehensive income and accounted as a separate 
component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified 
into the statement of profit and loss when the related 
hedged items affect profit and loss.
 
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or 
loss recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity till that time remains and is 
recognised in statement of profit and loss when the 
forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and 
loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes 
ineffective.
 
Instruments not in hedging relationship
 
 
The Group enters into contracts that are effective 
as hedges from an economic perspective, but they 
do not qualify for hedge accounting. The change in 
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Group assesses at each date of balance sheet whether 
a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. 
Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be measured 
through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime 
expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade 
receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. 
In determining the allowance for expected credit losses, 
the Group has used a practical expedient by computing 
the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables 
based on a provision matrix. The provision matrix takes into 
account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted 
for forward looking information. The expected credit loss 
allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that 
are due and allowance rates used in the provision matrix. 
For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected 
credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time 
expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial 
asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(a) Investments
 
Investments consist of the following:
 
Investments – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments designated at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares
Mozido LLC (unquoted)

FCM LLC (unquoted)

Taj Air Limited (unquoted)

Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation (unquoted)

LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (quoted)

Less: Impairment in value of investments
(142)
(134)
Investments carried at amortised cost
Government bonds and securities (quoted)

Corporate bonds (quoted)

Investments – Non-current includes `249 crore and `229 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts 
held for specified purposes.
 
Investments – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)
 2,360 
 2,296 
Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
 24,746 
 26,128 
Corporate bonds (quoted)
 3,406 
 3,110 
Investments carried at amortised cost
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Certificate of deposits (quoted)
 2,955 
Commercial papers (quoted)

 2,398 
 31,481 
 36,897 
 
Investments – Current includes `196 crore and `68 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts and 
TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
 
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility amounting to NIL and `1,650 crore as at 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 31,731 
 37,127 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net of impairment)

Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 31,729 
 37,121 
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Government bonds and securities

Corporate bonds 

Certificate of deposits 
 2,951 
Commercial papers

 2,400 
 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are as follows:
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Equity instruments designated 
at fair value through OCI
As at
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fully paid equity shares
1,00,00,000
USD
1 Mozido LLC (unquoted)

USD
5,00,000 FCM LLC (unquoted)

1,90,00,000
INR
10 Taj Air Limited (unquoted)

5,00,000
PHP
100 Philippine Dealing System Holdings 
Corporation (unquoted)

66,05,679
CLP
1 LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (quoted)

Less: Impairment in value of investments
(142)
(134)

The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year 

Net loss arising on revaluation of financial assets carried at fair value
(6)
(2)
Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of investments other than equities carried at 
fair value through other comprehensive income

(676)
Deferred tax relating to net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of investments other 
than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive income
(40)

Net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and loss on sale of 
investments other than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income
(11)
(3)
Deferred tax relating to net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and 
loss on sale of investments other than equities carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Balance at the end of the year 

(b) Trade receivables – Billed
 
Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Trade receivables - Billed – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (638)
(675)
Considered good

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
Less than 
6 months
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good


Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (638)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good


Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (675)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables - Billed
44,722 
 41,244 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (365)
 (297)
Considered good
 44,357 
 40,947 
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (187)
 (241)
Credit impaired

 44,434 
 41,049 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 38,188 
 4,952 

 279 44,697 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

38,188
4,958

 463 44,986 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (552)
 44,434 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 9,143 
 53,577
 
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 36,529 
 3,360 

 41,206 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired

 36,594 
 3,402 

 41,587 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (538)
 41,049 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 8,905 
 49,954 
 
Above balances of trade receivables - billed includes balances with related parties (Refer note 22).
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
 2,804 
 2,114 
 
In deposit accounts 
 6,212 
 4,999 
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit

 9,016 
 7,123 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Balances with banks in current accounts include `9 crore and `8 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to 
trusts held for specified purposes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(d) Other balances with banks
 
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Earmarked balances with banks

Short-term bank deposits
3,799 
 3,224 
4,270 
 3,909 
 
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments, unclaimed dividends and liquidity 
backstop as a part of regulatory requirements. 
 
Short-term bank deposits include `517 crore and `425 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to TCS 
foundation held for specified purposes.
(e) Loans
 
Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Loans – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits

Loans to employees

Loans – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits

Loans to employees

Credit impaired
Loans to employees

Less: Allowance for loans to employees
(32)

 1,325 
 
Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate. Inter-corporate deposits include `110 crore and 
`932 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
(f) Other financial assets
 
Other financial assets consist of the following:
 
Other financial assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security deposits

Earmarked balances with banks

Long-term bank deposits
 2,248 
 1,334 
Interest receivable

Others

 3,272 
 2,149 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Other financial assets - Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security deposits

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

Interest receivable

Advances to employees

Less: Allowance for advances to employees
(43)
Others

1,703 
 1,319 
 
Long-term bank deposits include `1,495 crore and `417 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to TCS 
Foundation held for specified purposes.
 
Interest receivable includes `111 crore and `66 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS 
Foundation held for specified purposes.
(g) Trade payables
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
MSME*


Others
 1,001 
 2,025 

 3,105 
Disputed dues - Others

 3,236 
Accrued expenses
 6,745 
 9,981 
 
* MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006. 
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
 Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
 1,776 
 1,903 
(2) 

 3,730 
Disputed dues - Others

(2)

 3,759 
Accrued expenses
 6,756 
 10,515 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(h) Other financial liabilities
 
Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
 
Other financial liabilities – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital creditors

Others

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, by the seller of 

 
Other financial liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Accrued payroll
 5,760 
 6,847 
Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts
 1,509 
 1,137 
Others

 8,362 
 9,068 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
Amortised 
cost 
Total carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 9,016 
 9,016 
Bank deposits
 6,047 
 6,047 
Earmarked balances with banks

Investments
 2,360 
 28,184 
 1,218 
 31,762 
Trade receivables
 Billed
 44,561 
 44,561 
 Unbilled
 9,159 
 9,159 
Loans

Other financial assets

 2,373 
 2,514 
 2,360 
 28,184 

 73,551 
1,04,236
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 9,981 
 9,981 
Lease liabilities
 8,021 
 8,021 
Other financial liabilities

 8,613 
 8,727 

 26,615 
 26,729 
 
Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `170 crore, with original maturity period within 24 months.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
Amortised 
cost 
Total carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
7,123 
7,123 
Bank deposits
4,558 
4,558 
Earmarked balances with banks

Investments
2,296 
29,274 
5,593 
37,163 
Trade receivables
 Billed
41,198 
41,198 
 Unbilled
9,104 
9,104 
Loans
1,498 
1,498 
Other financial assets

1,751 
1,942 
2,296 
29,274 

71,702 
1,03,463
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
10,515 
10,515 
Lease liabilities
7,688 
7,688 
Other financial liabilities

9,280 
9,421 

27,483 
27,624 
 
Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `1,016 crore, with original maturity period within 24 months.
 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
approximate the fair value due to their nature. Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other 
financial assets and other financial liabilities which are subsequently measured at amortised cost also approximate the fair value 
due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of 
investments carried at amortised cost is `1,215 crore and `5,587 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
(j) 
Fair value hierarchy
 
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable 
or unobservable and consists of the following three levels:
 
Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2 — Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 
Level 3 — Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in 
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market 
transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
 
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that 
are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
2,360 
2,360 
Equity shares

Government bonds and securities
24,932 
24,932 
Corporate bonds
3,497 
3,497 
Commercial papers

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

31,729 

31,901 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
2,296 
2,296 
Equity shares

Government bonds and securities
26,314 
26,314 
Corporate bonds
3,160 
3,160 
Certificate of deposits
2,951 
2,951 
Commercial papers
2,400 
2,400 
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

37,121 

37,348 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year

Impairment in value of investments
(6)
(2)
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year

(k) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity
 
The Group’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs 
are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Group to currency fluctuations. 
 
The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk 
management plan of the Group which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Under the 
guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Group uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward, 
currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount 
of contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount 
of contracts 
 (In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
US Dollar

Great Britain Pound

Euro

The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Intrinsic value
Time value
Intrinsic value
Time value
Balance at the beginning of the year

(28)

(53)
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on occurrence of 
forecasted hedge transactions
 (139)

(376)

Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on 
occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions

 (55)

(144)
Change in the fair value of effective portion of cash flow 
hedges

 (228)

(456)
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of effective portion of 
cash flow hedges
 (31)

 (84)

Balance at the end of the year

(18)

(28)
 
The Group has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by way of foreign exchange forward, currency 
options and futures contracts. As at March 31, 2024 and 2023, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated to 
`50,982 crore and `47,500 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net loss of `19 crore and 
gain of `13 crore.
 
Exchange gain of `109 crore and loss of `1,162 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the years ended 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `102 crore and `112 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve to profit 
and loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Net loss on derivative instruments of `9 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve as at March 31, 2024, is expected to be 
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2025. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow 
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2024.
 
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on Group’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation / 
depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign currencies
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies

(l) 
Financial risk management
 
The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which 
may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks 
associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of 
the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Group.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign 
currency exchange rate risk.
 
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
 
 
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss and other comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where 
assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities. Considering 
the countries and economic environment in which the Group operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from 
fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries. 
 
 
The Group, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any 
movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against major foreign currencies may impact 
the Group’s revenue in international business.
 
 
The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
 
 
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective functional currencies of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries.
 
 
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures for each of the subsidiaries and 
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the statement of profit and loss and 
other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative 
contracts entered into by the Group as disclosed in note 8(k).
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,753 

 3,508 
Net financial liabilities
 (7,129)
 (253)
 (2,185)
 (753)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `338 crore for the year ended March 31, 2024.
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 3,869 

 2,136 
Net financial liabilities
 (11,021)
 (657)
 (1,536)
 (270)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its 
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes 
by approximately `713 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
Interest rate risk
 
 
The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly 
exposed to interest rate risk.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Credit risk
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms 
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well 
as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous 
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit. Refer note 5 for methods, assumptions 
and information used to measure expected credit losses.
 
Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, derivative financial 
instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial assets. Inter-corporate deposits of `170 crore are with 
a financial institution having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits include an amount of `5,197 
crore held with two banks having high credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of the Group’s total bank 
deposits as at March 31, 2024. None of the other financial instruments of the Group result in material concentration of credit risk.
 
Exposure to credit risk
 
 
The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk was `2,96,130 crore and `1,09,258 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, being the total 
of the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments, trade receivables, loans, contract assets and 
other financial assets.
 
 
The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade 
receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2024 and 2023.
 
Geographic concentration of credit risk
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Gross%
Net%
Gross%
Net%
United States of America
 42.07 
 42.67 
 43.65 
 44.31 
India
 18.68 
 17.44 
 15.45 
 14.06 
United Kingdom
 16.56 
 16.86 
 16.05 
 16.37 
 
 
Geographical concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the 
location of the customers.
 
 
The allowance for lifetime expected credit losses on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was 
`98 crore and `126 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for expected credit losses is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,213 
 1,333 
Change during the year

Bad debts written off
 (118)
 (253)
Translation exchange difference
 (3)

Balance at the end of the year
 1,190 
 1,213 
 
Liquidity risk
 
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is 
to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Group consistently generated 
sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and when they fall due.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(` crore)
March 31, 2024
 Due in 
1st year 
 Due in 
2nd year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 9,981 
 9,981 
Lease liabilities
 1,959 
 1,709 
 3,364 
 3,070 
 10,102 
Other financial liabilities
 8,255 

8,624 
20,195 
1,760 
3,437 
3,315 
28,707 
Derivative financial liabilities


20,309 
1,760 
3,437 
3,315 
28,821 
(` crore)
March 31, 2023
 Due in 
1st year 
 Due in 
2nd year 
 Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
 Due after 
5th year 
 Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
10,515 
10,515 
Lease liabilities
1,969 
1,771 
3,185 
2,836 
9,761 
Other financial liabilities
8,948 

9,310 
21,432 
1,822 
3,487 
2,845 
29,586 
Derivative financial liabilities


21,573 
1,822 
3,487 
2,845 
29,727 
(m) Equity instruments
 
The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Authorised 
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each)

Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
361,80,87,518 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each)

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder value, safeguard business continuity and support 
the growth of the Company. The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term 
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The 
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 11, 2023, approved a proposal to buy-back upto 4,09,63,855 equity shares 
of the Company for an aggregate amount not exceeding `17,000 crore, being 1.12% of the total paid up equity share capital at 
`4,150 per equity share. The shareholders approved the same on November 15, 2023, by way of a special resolution through 
postal ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders. The Company bought back 4,09,63,855 equity shares out 
of the shares that were tendered by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares on December 13, 2023. Capital 
redemption reserve was created to the extent of share capital extinguished (`4 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of `17,046 
crore (including `46 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back) over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of 
`3,959 crore were offset from retained earnings.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Reconciliation of number of shares
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance
365,90,51,373

365,90,51,373

Shares extinguished on buy-back
(4,09,63,855)
 (4)
Closing balance
361,80,87,518

365,90,51,373

II. 
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
 
 
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per 
share held and carry a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding.
 
III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Equity shares
Holding company
259,54,99,419 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 264,43,17,117 equity shares) are 
held by Tata Sons Private Limited

Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company
7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 7,220 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Industries Limited*
10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 10,14,172 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Investment Corporation Limited*
46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 46,798 equity shares) are held by Tata 
Steel Limited*
766 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 766 equity shares) are held by The Tata 
Power Company Limited*

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.
 
IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company
259,54,99,419
264,43,17,117
% of shareholding
71.74%
72.27%
 
Equity shares movement during five years preceding March 31, 2024
 
 
Equity shares issued as bonus
 
 
 
The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred 
from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in the quarter 
ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through postal 
ballot.
 
 
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back
 
 
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
 
 
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
January 6, 2021.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
September 26, 2018.
 
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
 2,595,499,419 
71.74%
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
 (0.53)%
Total
 2,595,499,419 
71.74%
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
 (0.53)%
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change during 
the year
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private 
Limited
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
Total
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
 2,644,317,117 
72.27%
Leases
 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. 
 
Group as a lessee
 
The Group accounts for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the 
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of 
the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components. 
 
The Group recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term at the lease 
commencement date. The cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial 
measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the 
commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use 
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date of the lease. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably 
similar characteristics, the Group, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease 
or the incremental borrowing rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed payments, variable lease 
payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price of a purchase option where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate 
the lease. The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease 
liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any 
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments. The Group recognises the amount 
of the re-measurement of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset and statement of profit 
and loss depending upon the nature of modification. Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the remeasurement in statement of profit and loss.
 
The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 - Leases to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease 
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
Group as a lessor
 
At the inception of the lease the Group classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease. The Group 
recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In case of a 
finance lease, finance income is recognised over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on 
the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from 
the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the 
exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease. 
 
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies Ind AS 115 - Revenue from contracts with 
customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
 
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2024
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,928 
 6,631 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

Furniture and fixtures

 2,074 
 7,886 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,236 
 6,330 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

 1,520 
 7,560 
 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings
1,593 
 1,530 
Leasehold improvements

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Office equipment

Furniture and fixtures
1,716 
 1,634 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Interest on lease liabilities is `518 crore and `492 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
The Group incurred `353 crore and `318 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards expenses 
relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The total cash outflow for leases is `2,515 crore and `2,538 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, 
including cash outflow for short term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The Group has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of 
future cash outflows for such extension periods is `815 crore and `786 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Lease contracts entered by the Group majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course. 
 
The Group does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
10) Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
(a) Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
 
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives as prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of certain categories 
of assets, where the useful life of the assets has been assessed based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and 
residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a 
prospective basis. 
 
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings 
20 years*
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years*
Computer equipment
4 years*
Vehicles
4 years*
Office equipment
2-5 years*
Electrical installations
4-10 years*
Furniture and fixtures
5 years*
 
* The Group believes that the technically evaluated useful lives, different from Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, best 
represent the period over which these assets are expected to be used.
 
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
 
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs. 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2023

 8,066 
 2,673 

 13,435 

 2,815 
 2,138 
 1,992 
 32,344 
Additions

 1,923 
Disposals
(4)
(98)
(3)
(279)
(4)
(53)
(39)
(22)
(502)
Translation exchange difference

(3)

(1)

Cost as at March 31, 2024

 8,280 
 2,777 

 14,199 

 2,976 
 2,202 
 2,142 
 33,853 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 1, 2023
 (3,744)
 (1,945)
 (458)
 (10,025)
 (36)
 (2,487)
 (1,646)
 (1,773)
 (22,114)
Depreciation
(413)
(182)
(86)
(1,682)
(4)
(192)
(134)
(97)
(2,790)
Disposals

Translation exchange difference
(1)
(7)

(52)
(5)
(3)
(65)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2024
(4,154)
(2,036)
(539)
(11,483)
(37)
(2,629)
(1,748)
(1,851)
(24,477)
Net carrying amount as at March 
31, 2024

 4,126 

 2,716 

9,376 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,564 
Total
 10,940 
 *`1,923 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2024.
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022

 7,829 
 2,569 

 12,087 

 2,686 
 2,062 
 1,906 
 30,300 
Additions

 1,628 

 2,314 
Disposals
 (5)
 (15)
 (342)
 (4)
 (69)
 (9)
 (14)
 (458)
Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2023

 8,066 
 2,673 

 13,435 

 2,815 
 2,138 
 1,992 
 32,344 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 1, 2022
 (3,343)
 (1,736)
 (377)
 (8,563)
 (35)
 (2,315)
 (1,503)
 (1,654)
 (19,526)
Depreciation
 (398)
 (186)
 (80)
 (1,755)
 (4)
 (219)
 (140)
 (110)
 (2,892)
Disposals

Translation exchange difference
 (7)
 (38)
 (1)
 (47)
 (15)
 (12)
 (23)
 (143)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2023
 (3,744)
 (1,945)
 (458)
 (10,025)
 (36)
 (2,487)
 (1,646)
 (1,773)
 (22,114)
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2023

 4,322 

 3,410 

10,230 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,234 
Total
 11,464 
 *`2,314 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2023. 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
 
Capital work-in-progress
 
 
Capital work-in-progress ageing
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 1,010 

 1,564 
 1,010 

 1,564 
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,234 

 1,234 
 
 
 
Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects 
are executed as per rolling annual plan.
 
(b) Goodwill
 
 
Goodwill represents the cost of acquired business as established at the date of acquisition of the business in excess of 
the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities less accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that the 
implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount. 
 
 
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication 
for impairment. The financial projections basis which the future cash flows have been estimated consider economic 
uncertainties, reassessment of the discount rates, revisiting the growth rates factored while arriving at terminal value and 
subjecting these variables to sensitivity analysis. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other 
assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
 
 
Goodwill consists of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the period
 1,858 
 1,787 
Translation exchange difference
(26)

Balance at the end of the period
1,832 
 1,858 
 
 
Goodwill of `689 crore and `685 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, has been allocated to the TCS business 
in France. The estimated value-in-use of this CGU is based on the future cash flows using a 1.50% annual growth rate 
for periods subsequent to the forecast period of 5 years and discount rate of 8.67%. An analysis of the sensitivity of the 
computation to a change in key parameters (operating margin, discount rates and long term average growth rate), based on 
reasonable assumptions, did not identify any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the CGU would decrease 
below its carrying amount.
 
 
The remaining amount of goodwill of `1,143 crore and `1,173 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, (relating 
to different CGUs individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow forecasts of the related CGUs and the 
recoverable amounts of these CGUs exceeded their carrying amounts.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
(c) Other intangible assets
 
 
Intangible assets purchased including acquired in business combination, are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, 
as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software licences and customer-related intangibles. 
 
 
Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated useful lives:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Rights under licensing agreement and software licences
Lower of licence period and 2-5 years
Customer-related intangibles
3 years
 
 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.
 
 
Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs. 
 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Customer-related 
intangibles
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2023
 1,892 

 2,018 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (18)
 (18)
Translation exchange difference
 (1)

Cost as at March 31, 2024
 2,004 

 2,131 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2023
 (1,025)
 (126)
 (1,151)
Amortisation
 (479)
(479)
Disposals / Derecognised

Translation exchange difference
 (1)
 (1)
 (2)
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2024
 (1,494)
 (127)
 (1,621)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024

(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Customer-related 
intangibles
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022
 1,697 

 1,818 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (73)
 (73)
Translation exchange difference

Cost as at March 31, 2023
 1,892 

 2,018 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2022
 (596)
 (121)
 (717)
Amortisation
 (496)
 (496)
Disposals / Derecognised

Translation exchange difference
 (6)
 (5)
 (11)
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2023
 (1,025)
 (126)
 (1,151)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2023

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
 
The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Amortisation expense

(d) Other assets
 
 
Other assets consist of the following:
 
 
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
 2,557 
 2,138 
Contract fulfillment costs

Others

 3,596 
 2,806 
Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited

Saankhya Labs Private Limited

Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
 
Other assets – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Advance to suppliers

Advance to related parties

Contract assets
 5,846 
5,616 
Prepaid expenses
 2,055 
1,494 
Prepaid rent

Contract fulfillment costs
 1,588 
 1,035 
Indirect taxes recoverable
 1,288 
1,049 
Others

Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers

Other advances

Less: Allowance for doubtful assets
(6)
(6)
12,267 
9,707 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Tata Sons Private Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

Titan Company Limited

Tejas Networks Limited

Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `177 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
 
Contract fulfillment costs of `838 crore and `967 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, have 
been amortised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in contract assets.
 
(e) Inventories
 
 
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components, b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and 
d) Finished goods. Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies 
and components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Group 
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
 
 
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components

Finished goods and work-in-progress

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
(f) 
Other liabilities
 
 
Other liabilities consist of the following:
 
 
Other liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance received from customers
 1,841 

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory liabilities 
 4,330 
 4,119 
Others

 6,524 
 4,892 
 
(g) Provisions
 
 
Provisions consist of the following:
 
 
Provisions – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 20)

Provision for foreseeable loss

Other provisions

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
11) Other equity
 
Other equity consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital reserve

Capital redemption reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer from retained earnings

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 Opening balance
 11,809 
 7,287 
 Transfer from retained earnings
 9,875 
 8,380 
 Transfer to retained earnings
(5,450)
(3,858)
 16,234 
 11,809 
Retained earnings
 Opening balance
 74,722 
 78,158 
 Profit for the year
45,908 
 42,147 
 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 
(13)

 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares
(46)
 Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(3,959)
 Buy-back of equity shares
(16,996)
 Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve 
5,450 
 3,858 
 Purchase of non-controlling interests
(8)
1,05,066
1,24,430
 Less: Appropriations
 
 Dividend on equity shares
 25,137 
 41,347 
 
 Transfer to capital redemption reserve

 Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
9,875 
 8,380 
 
 Transfer from statutory reserve

(19)
 70,033 
 74,722 
Statutory reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer to retained earnings

(19)

Investment revaluation reserve
 Opening balance 

 Change during the year (net)

(447)

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 8(k))
 Opening balance
(20)
(26)
 Change during the year (net)

(9)
(20)
Foreign currency translation reserve
 Opening balance
 2,848 
2,189 
 Change during the year (net)

 2,955 
 2,848 
90,127
90,058 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
12) Revenue recognition
 
The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Group offers a consultingled, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc. 
 
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Group is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over the period of performance.
 
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations. 
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method . 
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer. 
 
The solutions offered by the Group may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Group is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent. 
 
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.
 
The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Group assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
 
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Group allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
 
The Group exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period 
of time. The Group considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who controls 
the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of such 
product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
 
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified 
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of 
time is required, as per contractual terms. 
 
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
 
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress 
payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
 
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received. 
 
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract specification and requirements. The Group reviews 
modification to contract in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price could be allocated to a new 
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is 
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
 
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
 
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Consultancy services
2,38,135
2,23,332
Sale of equipment and software licences
 2,758 
 2,126 
2,40,893
2,25,458
 
Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included in segment information (Refer note 19).
 
While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially 
satisfied) performance obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise those revenues, the 
Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Group has not disclosed the aggregate transaction price 
allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised 
corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts. 
 
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, 
changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc). 
The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `1,65,314 crore 
out of which 47.69% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from 
contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.
 
Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 5,831 
 4,419 
Invoices raised that were included in the contract assets balance at the beginning of 
the year
 (3,933)
 (3,305)
Increase due to revenue recognised during the year, excluding amounts billed during 
the year
 4,182 
 4,519 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 6,141 
 5,831 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 4,846 
 4,745 
Revenue recognised that was included in the unearned and deferred revenue 
balance at the beginning of the year
 (4,178)
 (3,071)
Increase due to invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as revenue 
during the year
 3,469 
 3,088 
Translation exchange difference
 (15)

Balance at the end of the year
 4,122 
 4,846 
 
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Contracted price
2,44,803
2,28,932
Reductions towards variable consideration components
 (3,910)
 (3,474)
Revenue recognised
2,40,893
2,25,458
 
The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.
13) Other income
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest method.
 
Other income consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest income
 3,781 
3,248 
Dividend income

Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments 
carried at fair value through profit or loss

Net gain on sale of investments other than equity 
shares carried at fair value through OCI

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Net gain / (loss) on lease modification

(2)
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss)

(159)
Other income

 4,422 
3,449 
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits

Interest on financial assets carried at amortised cost

Interest on financial assets carried at fair value through OCI
 2,198 
2,131 
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds)

Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from mutual fund units and other investments

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
14) Employee benefits
 
Defined benefit plans
 
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the 
changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and 
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the 
entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits. 
 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
 
The Group provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which are 
treated as defined benefit plans.
 
Defined contribution plans
 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to 
such benefits.
 
The Group provides benefits such as superannuation, provident fund (other than Company managed fund) and foreign defined 
contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.
 
Short-term employee benefits
 
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal 
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
 
Compensated absences
 
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date. Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services are 
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
 
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, incentives and allowances
1,25,432
1,14,359
Contributions to provident and other funds
 10,962 
 9,644 
Staff welfare expenses
 3,737 
 3,519 
1,40,131
1,27,522
 
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
 
Employee benefit obligations – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gratuity liability

Foreign defined benefit plans

Other employee benefit obligations

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Employee benefit obligations – Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Compensated absences
 4,480 
 4,027 
Other employee benefit obligations

 4,519 
 4,065 
 
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
 
Gratuity and pension
 
In accordance with Indian law, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries in India operate a scheme of gratuity which 
is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in 
employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year 
of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a trust. 
Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement 
benefit pension plans in accordance with the local laws.
 
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Change in benefit 
obligations
Benefit obligations, 
beginning of the year
 4,667 

 1,833 
 294 6,797 
 4,482 

 2,294 

 7,048 
Translation exchange

Plan participants’ 
contribution

Service cost

Interest cost

Remeasurement 
of the net defined 
benefit liability

 (16)

 (158)
 (627)
 (39)
 (824)
Past service cost / 
(credit)

 (7)
 (7)
Benefits paid
 (383)
 (61)
 (31)
 (475)
 (504)
 (6)
 (26)
 (536)
Benefit obligations, 
end of the year
 5,300 

 1,898 
 392 7,593 
 4,667 

 1,833 

 6,797 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan 
assets, beginning of 
the year
 6,405 
 1,929 
 8,334 
 5,527 
 2,132 
 7,659 
Translation exchange

Interest income

Employers’ 
contributions

 1,060 

 1,079 
Plan participants’ 
contribution

Benefits paid
 (383)
 (61)
 (444)
 (504)
 (6)
 (510)
Remeasurement - 
return on plan assets 
excluding amount 
included in interest 
income

 (103)
 (371)
 (474)
Fair value of plan 
assets, end of the year
 7,234 
 2,078 
 9,312 
 6,405 
 1,929 
 8,334 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Funded status
Deficit of plan 
assets over 
obligations
 (12)
 (3)
 (110)
 (392)
 (517)
 (8)
 (3)
 (89)
 (294)
 (394)
Surplus of plan 
assets over 
obligations
 1,946 

 - 2,236 
 1,746 

 1,931 
 1,934 
 (3)

 (392)
 1,719 
 1,738 
 (3)

 (294)
 1,537 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Category of assets
Corporate bonds
 1,960 

 - 2,331 
 1,832 

2,119 
Equity instruments

Government bonds 
and securities
 3,172 
 - 3,172 
 2,917 
2,917 
Insurer managed 
funds
 1,734 

 - 2,341 
 1,390 

1,933 
Bank balances

Others

7,234 
2,078 
9,312 
6,405 
1,929 
8,334 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Service cost

Net interest on net 
defined benefit 
(asset) / liability
(138)
(4)

(124)
(93)

(78)
Past service cost / 
(credit)

 (7)
 (7)
Net periodic 
gratuity / pension 
cost

Actual return on 
plan assets

(345)
(23)
 
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)
 Year ended March 31, 2024 
 Domestic 
plans 
funded 
 Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
 Foreign 
plans 
funded
 Foreign 
plans 
unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 (2)
 (4)
 (3)
 (9)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in financial assumptions

 (43)

Actuarial losses arising from changes in 
experience adjustments

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 
liability

 (16)

Remeasurement - return on plan assets 
excluding amount included in interest income
 (110)
 (50)
 (160)

 (66)

(` crore)
 Year ended March 31, 2023
 Domestic 
plans 
funded 
 Domestic 
plans 
unfunded
 Foreign 
plans 
funded 
 Foreign 
plans 
unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial losses arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions

Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (164)
 (625)
 (47)
 (836)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes 
in experience adjustments
 (24)
 (2)

 (23)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 
liability
 (158)
 (627)
 (39)
 (824)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets 
excluding amount included in interest income

 (55)
 (256)
 (39)
 (350)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Discount rate 
 7.00% - 7.25% 
 1.57% - 9.40% 
 7.25% - 7.50% 
 2.16% - 9.40% 
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered 
employees
 5.00% - 10.00% 
 1.75% - 7.00% 
 4.00% - 8.00% 
 1.50% - 7.00% 
Rate of return on plan assets
 7.00% - 7.25% 
 1.57% - 9.40% 
 7.25% - 7.50% 
 2.16% - 9.40% 
Weighted average duration of defined benefit 
obligations
 2-11 Years 
 3-27 Years 
 2-13 Years 
 3-28 Years 
 
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India.
 
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to measure Group’s defined benefit plan obligations as 
at March 31, 2024. The Group is expected to contribute `40 crore to defined benefit plan obligations funds for the year ending 
March 31, 2025 comprising domestic component of `8 crore and foreign component of `32 crore.
 
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligations are discount rate and expected 
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Increase of 0.50%
 (272)
 (265)
Decrease of 0.50%

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as 
follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Increase of 0.50%

Decrease of 0.50%
 (157)
 (147)
 
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
 
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligations has been calculated 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the 
defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
 
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are 
analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after year ended March 31, 2024 as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Defined benefit 
obligations

2030-2034
 2,989 
 
Provident fund
 
In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of Tata Consultancy Services Limited in India are entitled to receive benefits 
under the provident fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to a trust set 
up by the Company to manage the investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit 
plan as the Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest 
rate declared by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government 
administered pension fund. The contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as 
an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund 
liabilities on the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions as mentioned below, there 
is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected 
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered 
provident fund.
 
All eligible employees of Indian subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund plan in 
which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to the Government administered provident 
fund plan. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. This plan is a defined 
contribution plan as the obligation of the employer is limited to the monthly contributions made to the fund. The contributions 
made to the fund are recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
 
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fair value of plan assets
29,170 
25,511 
Present value of defined benefit obligations
(29,170)
(25,511)
Net excess / (shortfall)
 
The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds. 
 
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of interest guarantee under the deterministic 
approach are as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
7.25%
7.50%
Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio
6 years
7 years
Guaranteed rate of return
8.25%
8.15%
 
The Group expensed `1,698 crore and `1,628 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
provident fund.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Superannuation
 
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Group 
makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Group recognises such contributions as an 
expense when incurred. The Group has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
 
The Group expensed `452 crore and `394 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards Employees’ 
Superannuation Fund.
 
Foreign defined contribution plans
 
The Group expensed `2,529 crore and `2,109 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards foreign 
defined contribution plans.
15) Cost recognition
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature. 
 
The costs of the Group are broadly categorised in employee benefit expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, 
depreciation and amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include fees to external consultants, facility 
expenses, travel expenses, communication expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses 
and doubtful advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material such 
as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
 
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
 
 
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components consumed

Equipment and software licences purchased
 3,655 
 1,846 
 3,697 
 1,883 
Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock

Less: Closing stock

 (2)
 3,702 
 1,881 
 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
(b) Other expenses
 
 
Other expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Fees to external consultants
 15,820 
 21,337 
Facility expenses
 3,100 
 2,655 
Travel expenses
 2,970 
 2,675 
Communication expenses
 2,261 
 2,246 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses and 
doubtful advances (net)

Other expenses
 8,499 
 7,743 
 32,764 
 36,796 
 
 
Other expenses include `4,017 crore and `3,488 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
project expenses.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
16) Finance costs
 
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest on lease liabilities

Interest on tax matters

Other interest costs

17) Income taxes
 
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income taxes
 
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India and overseas. The 
current tax payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax 
relief available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
 
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
 
The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary 
in the respective jurisdiction in which it operates.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred income taxes
 
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction. 
 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. 
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
 
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of 
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after 
the tax holiday ends.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be 
available for set off against future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the balance 
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will 
be realised.
 
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
16,284 
 15,389 
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years
(420)
(632)
 15,864 
 14,757 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax expense / (benefit) for current year

(130)
Deferred tax expense / (benefit) pertaining to prior years

(23)

(153)
 15,898 
 14,604 
 
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in 
consolidated statement of profit and loss is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit before tax
 61,997 
56,907 
Indian statutory income tax rate
34.94%
34.94%
Expected income tax expense
 21,664 
19,887 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported 
income tax expense
Tax holidays
(6,407)
(5,112)
Income exempt from tax
(522)
(236)
Undistributed earnings in branches and subsidiaries

Tax on income at different rates

Tax pertaining to prior years
(389)
(655)
Effect of tax rate change under new regime

Others (net)

(64)
Total income tax expense
 15,898 
14,604 
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 
2005. These tax holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the 
SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or 
gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% 
of such profits or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits 
from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2024 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit and 
loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from 
other comprehensive 
income
Adjustments 
/ Utilisation
Exchange 
difference
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / 
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,056 

(24)
(8)
1,108 
Cash flow hedges

(3)

Receivables, financial assets at 
amortised cost

(15)
(1)

Branch profit tax
(135)

(100)
Undistributed earnings of 
subsidiaries
(534)
(146)
(680)
Unrealised gain on securities 
carried at fair value through 
profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(84)
(2)
(37)
(3)
(126)
Lease liabilities and right-of-use 
assets


Others 

(62)

2,515 
(34)
(64)

2,426 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,149 

1,108 
Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(100)
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

(680)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(124)

(126)
Lease liabilities
1,314 
1,314 
Right-of-use assets
(1,044)
(1,044)
Others 

3,403 

2,426 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit and 
loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from 
other comprehensive 
income
Ajustments / 
Utilisation
Exchange 
difference
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / 
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,042 

(62)

1,056 
Cash flow hedges

(1)

Receivables, financial assets at 
amortised cost

(46)

MAT credit entitlement

(975)
Branch profit tax
(77)
(58)
(135)
Undistributed earnings of 
subsidiaries
(355)
(179)
(534)
Unrealised gain on securities 
carried at fair value through 
profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(320)
(1)

(84)
Lease liabilities and right-of-use 
assets

Others 

 3,118 

 (975)

 2,515 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefits 
1,065 

1,056 
Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(135)
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

(534)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(83)

(84)
Lease liabilities
1,152 
1,152 
Right-of-use assets
(902)
(902)
Others 

3,307 

2,515 
 
Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, unabsorbed business losses expire 8 years after the year in which they originate. In respect 
of certain foreign subsidiaries, business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial change in the 
ownership.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relate primarily to business losses and tax credit entitlements which do not qualify for 
recognition as per the applicable accounting standards. These unabsorbed business losses will expire based on the year of 
origination as follows:
(` crore)
March 31,
Unabsorbed 
business losses

Thereafter

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Tata Consultancy Services Limited is liable to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday 
period. MAT paid can be carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT is 
recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic 
benefit associated with the asset will be realised. 
 
Deferred tax liability on temporary differences of `7,473 crore as at March 31, 2024, associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
has not been recognised, as it is the intention of Tata Consultancy Services Limited to reinvest the earnings of these subsidiaries 
for the foreseeable future.
 
Direct tax contingencies 
 
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other 
jurisdictions where they operate. The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation 
or eligibility of tax incentives and allowances and characterisation of fees for services received. Contingent liability in respect of 
tax demands received from direct tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions is `1,871 crore and `1,542 crore as at March 
31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. These demand orders are being contested by the Company and its subsidiaries based on the 
management evaluation and advise of tax consultants. In respect of tax contingencies of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 
31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e‐Serve 
Limited.
 
The Group periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax authorities related to the Group’s operations in the 
jurisdictions it operates in. The Group has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent income 
tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
 
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India, tax filings from fiscal 2022 
are generally subject to examination by the tax authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation applies 
to fiscals 2020 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation 
generally applies to fiscal 2019 and earlier.
18) Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive 
securities in any of the periods presented.
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company (` crore)
 45,908 
 42,147 
Weighted average number of equity shares
364,68,51,755
365,90,51,373
Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
125.88
115.19
Face value per equity share (`)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
19) Segment information
 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is 
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The 
Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
 
The Group has identified business segments (‘industry vertical’) as reportable segments. The business segments comprise: 
1) Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, 2) Manufacturing, 3) Consumer Business, 4) Communication, Media and Technology, 
5) Life Sciences and Healthcare and 6) Others such as Energy, Resources and Utilities, s-Governance and Products. 
 
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses which are not 
directly identifiable to each reporting segment have been allocated on the basis of associated revenue of the segment. All other 
expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable expenses.
 
The assets and liabilities of the Group are used interchangeably amongst segments. Allocation of such assets and liabilities is not 
practicable and any forced allocation would not result in any meaningful segregation. Hence assets and liabilities have not been 
identified to any of the reportable segments. 
 
Summarised segment information for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, is as follows: 
Year ended March 31, 2024
(` crore)
Banking, 
Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
Manufacturing
Consumer 
Business
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
Life Sciences 
and 
Healthcare
Others
Total
Revenue from operations
90,928 
23,491 
39,357 
39,391 
26,745 
20,981 
2,40,893
Segment result
23,574 
7,268 
10,252 
10,918 
7,611 
4,673 
 64,296 
Total unallocable expenses*
6,721 
Operating income
57,575 
Other income
4,422 
Profit before tax
61,997 
Tax expense
15,898 
Profit for the year
46,099 
Depreciation and 
amortisation expense 
(unallocable)
 4,985 
Significant non-cash items 
(allocable)
(13)

*Includes settlement of legal claim of `958 crore (Refer note 20).
Year ended March 31, 2023
(` crore)
Banking, 
Financial 
Services and 
Insurance
Manufacturing
Consumer 
Business
Communication, 
Media and 
Technology
Life 
Sciences 
and 
Healthcare
Others
Total
Revenue from operations
86,127 
21,236 
37,506 
37,653 
24,605 
18,331 2,25,458
Segment result
22,345 
5,842 
9,636 
10,667 
6,894 
3,875 
59,259 
Total unallocable expenses
 5,801 
Operating income
53,458 
Other income
3,449 
Profit before tax
56,907 
Tax expense
14,604 
Profit for the year
42,303 
Depreciation and 
amortisation expense 
(unallocable)
5,021 
Significant non-cash items 
(allocable)

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:
(` crore)
Geography
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Americas
 North America
1,23,094
1,20,336
 Latin America
4,845
4,000
Europe
 United Kingdom
39,852
33,861
 Continental Europe
35,772
33,575
Asia Pacific
18,851
18,132
India
13,562
11,271
Middle East and Africa
4,917
4,283
2,40,893
2,25,458
 
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
 
Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Geography
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Americas
 North America
2,198
1,899
 Latin America

1,056
Europe
 United Kingdom
1,362
1,487
 Continental Europe
2,456
2,422
Asia Pacific

India
18,307
19,254
Middle East and Africa

 26,364 
 27,144 
 
Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax 
assets and other non-current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.
 
Information about major customers
 
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
20) Commitments and contingencies
 
Capital commitments
 
The Group has contractually committed (net of advances) `2,032 crore and `1,543 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
 
Contingencies
 
Direct tax matters
 
 
Refer note 17.
 
Indirect tax matters
 
 
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation 
and classification of certain items. The Company and its subsidiaries have demands amounting to `1,161 crore and `568 
crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the 
Company and its subsidiaries based on the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants. 
 
Other claims
 
 
Claims aggregating `226 crore and `277 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, against the Group have not been 
acknowledged as debts.
 
 
In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation (referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company 
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential 
information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
 
 
Pursuant to an initial unfavourable judgment from the District Court, the Appeals court re-affirmed the order of 
compensatory damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) and remanded back to the District Court to reassess matter 
relating to punitive damages (to limit maximum up to `1,167 crore (US $140 million)), the Company has already paid the 
compensatory damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) along with interest in April 2022. The Company’s second appeal 
in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages subsequently affirmed by the District Court was disposed on July 14, 
2023, with a re-affirmation of the District Court order awarding punitive damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million). The 
Company’s petition to the Supreme Court to review the entire judgement including both the compensatory and punitive 
damages re-affirmed by the Appeals Court was rejected by the Supreme Court on November 20, 2023, pursuant to which, 
punitive damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) was paid on December 1, 2023. The Company has provided the balance 
punitive damages amount of `958 crore (US $115 million) in its financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
disclosed the same as an “exceptional item” in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
 
Letter of comfort
 
 
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of 
comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such 
managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
 
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties. 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
21) Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interests
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
India
 74.12 
72,120 
 86.29 
 43,559 
 85.49 

 86.28 
 43,724 
Subsidiaries (held directly)
Indian
APTOnline Limited
India
 89.00 
 89.00 
 0.13 

 0.04 

 0.04 

C-Edge Technologies Limited
India
 51.00 
 51.00 
 0.42 

 0.19 

 0.19 

MP Online Limited
India
 89.00 
 89.00 
 0.13 

 0.06 

 0.06 

India
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.49 

 0.45 

 (0.52)
 (1)
 0.45 

MahaOnline Limited
India
 74.00 
 74.00 
 0.09 

 0.01 

 0.01 

TCS Foundation
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.34 
1,307 
Foreign
Tata America International 
Corporation
U.S.A.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.72 
1,669 
 2.32 
 1,170 
 (3.11)
 (6)
 2.30 
 1,164 
Tata Consultancy Services Canada 
Inc.
Canada
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.96 
1,906 
 2.07 
 1,047 
 2.07 
 1,047 
Tata Consultancy Services Argentina 
S.A.
Argentina
 100.00 
 100.00 
 (1)
 (0.01)
 (3)
 (0.01)
 (3)
Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A.
Chile
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.36 

 0.10 

 0.10 

Tata Consultancy Services De 
Mexico S.A., De C.V.
Mexico
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.93 

 0.39 

 1.55 

 0.39 

Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil 
Ltda
Brazil
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.43 

 0.05 

 0.05 

TCS Iberoamerica SA
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.87 
1,822 
 1.63 

 1.63 

TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada
Chile
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.28 

 0.10 

 0.11 

TCS Solution Center S.A.
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.33 

 0.14 

 0.14 

TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A.
Ecuador
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.10 

 (0.52)
 (1)
 (1)
MGDC S.C.
Mexico
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 (0.07)
 (36)
 (0.07)
 (36)
TCS Uruguay S.A.
Uruguay
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.25 

 0.19 

 0.19 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Guatemala, S.A.
Guatemala
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.01 

 0.01 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Tata Consultancy Services Belgium
Belgium
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.60 

 0.23 

 0.23 

Tata Consultancy Services De 
Espana S.A.
Spain
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.13 

 0.02 

 0.02 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Deutschland GmbH
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.93 

 0.20 

 (0.52)
 (1)
 0.20 

Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l.
Italy
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.08 

 0.01 

 0.01 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Netherlands BV
Netherlands
 100.00 
 100.00 
 3.49 
3,397 
 1.12 

 1.11 

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige 
Sweden
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.19 
1,157 
 0.53 

 0.52 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Portugal) Unipessoal, Limitada
Portugal
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.06 

 0.04 

 0.04 

Diligenta Limited
U.K.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.72 
1,673 
 0.45 

 (3.63)
 (7)
 0.43 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Luxembourg S.A.
Capellen 
(G.D. de 
Luxembourg)
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.13 

 0.12 

 0.12 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Switzerland Ltd.
Switzerland
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.89 

 0.41 

 (9.84)
 (19)
 0.37 

Tata Consultancy Services France
France
 100.00 
 100.00 
 (0.28)
 (275)
 0.19 

 (1.55)
 (3)
 0.19 

Tata Consultancy Services Saudi 
Arabia
Saudi Arabia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.17 

 0.05 

 (1.04)
 (2)
 0.05 

Tata Consultancy Services UK 
Limited
U.K.
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.01 

 0.01 

TCS Business Services GmbH
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.10 

 0.03 

 4.15 

 0.04 

Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria 
EOOD
Bulgaria
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.01 

 0.01 

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland 
Limited
Ireland
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.46 

 0.22 

 0.22 

TCS Technology Solutions GmbH
Germany
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.89 

 0.17 

 31.61 

 0.29 

Tata Consultancy Services 
Osterreich GmbH
Austria
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.01 


Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. 
Netherlands
 100.00 
Diligenta (Europe) B.V.
Netherlands
 100.00 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Tata Consultancy Services Asia 
Pacific Pte Ltd.
Singapore
 100.00 
 100.00 
 1.08 
1,049 
 0.54 

 0.53 

Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia 
Sdn Bhd
Malaysia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.10 

 0.11 

 0.11 

Australia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.14 

 0.10 

 0.10 

TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty 
Limited
Australia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.09 

 0.06 

 0.06 

PT Tata Consultancy Services 
Indonesia
Indonesia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.03 

 0.02 

 0.02 

Tata Consultancy Services (China) 
Co., Ltd.
China
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.38 

 0.15 

 0.15 

TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., 
Ltd.
China
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.04 

 0.01 

 0.01 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Thailand) Limited
Thailand
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.02 

 0.02 

 0.02 

Tata Consultancy Services 
(Philippines) Inc.
Philippines
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.17 

 0.18 

 (2.07)
 (4)
 0.17 

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, 
Ltd.
Japan
 66.00 
 66.00 
 1.78 
 1,743 
 0.82 

 0.81 

Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) 
(PTY) Ltd.
South Africa
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.05 

 0.07 

 0.07 

Tata Consultancy Services (South 
Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
South Africa
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.11 

 0.10 

 0.10 

Tata Consultancy Services Qatar 
L.L.C.
Qatar
 100.00 
 100.00 
 0.05 

 0.03 

 0.03 

Trusts
India
 0.32 

 0.02 

 0.02 

TOTAL
100.00
 97,305 
100.00
 50,481 
100.00

100.00
 50,674 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

% of voting 
power as at 
March 31, 

Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in Profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` crore)
Adjustments arising out of 
consolidation
 (5,986)
 (4,382)

 (4,338)
Non-controlling interests
 
Indian subsidiaries
 
APTOnline Limited
 (14)
 (2)
 (2)
 
C-Edge Technologies Limited
 (201)
 (46)
 (46)
 
MP Online Limited
 (15)
 (3)
 (3)
 
MahaOnline Limited
 (22)
 (2)
 (2)
 
Foreign subsidiaries
 
Tata Consultancy Services 
(China) Co., Ltd.
 
Tata Consultancy Services 
Japan, Ltd.
 (577)
 (137)

 (75)
TOTAL
 (830)
 (191)

 (129)
TOTAL
 90,489 
 45,908 

 46,207 
Notes:
TCS Technology Solutions AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions GmbH.
Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. merged with Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV w.e.f. August 29, 2023.
Diligenta Limited incorporated a subsidiary, Diligenta (Europe) B.V. in Netherlands on September 14, 2023.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
22) Related party transactions
 
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own 
subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances 
are with related parties with whom the Group routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 
for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
 
Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
 
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 1,025 
 4,495 
 5,570 
Purchases of goods and services (including 
reimbursements)

 1,390 

 1,642 
Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for expected credit losses and 
doubtful advances (net)

 (1)

Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 3,783 
 3,783 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Advances given
 1,013 

 1,111 
Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 18,177 

 18,187 
Buy-back of shares
 10,548 

 10,555 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 1,174 
 3,050 
 4,262 
Purchases of goods and services (including 
reimbursements)

Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for expected credit losses and 
doubtful advances (net)
 (1)
 (1)
Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,955 
 2,955 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 29,881 

 29,903 
 
Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024 
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 1,509 
 1,925 
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 

 1,238 

 1,249 

 1,649 
 1,518 
 3,174 

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 1,004 
 1,440 
Loans, other financial assets and other assets 

 1,089 
 1,630 
 
Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and deferred 
revenue, other financial liabilities and other 
liabilities

 1,003 

 1,786 
Commitments
 1,412 

 1,425 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Associates / 
joint ventures of 
Tata Sons Private 
Limited and their 
subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and deferred 
revenue, other financial liabilities and other 
liabilities

 1,190 
Commitments

Material related party transactions are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from operations
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 
 2,902 
 1,707 
Tata Steel IJmuiden BV

Tata Digital Private Limited

Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements) and net of cost 
recovery
Tejas Networks Limited

Advances given
Tejas Networks Limited

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables and contract assets
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and 
other liabilities 
Tejas Networks Limited

Loans, other financial assets and other assets 
Tejas Networks Limited

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Short-term benefits

Dividend paid during the year

Post-employment benefits

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the nomination and remuneration committee having regard to 
the performance of individuals and market trends. 
 
Transactions with key management personnel for the year ended March 31, 2023 did not include provisions for encashable leave, 
gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid were not available.
23) No funds have been advanced / loaned / invested (from borrowed funds or from share premium or from any other sources / kind 
of funds) by the Group to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries), with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, 
security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
No funds have been received by the Group from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Parties), with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall (i) directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or 
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
24) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `15 crore and `13 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.
25) The Board of Directors approved post-employment benefits, payable to the outgoing CEO and Managing Director, which has been 
actuarially valued. Accordingly, the Company has recorded an expense of `48 crore during the year ended March 31, 2024.
26) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will assess the impact and its evaluation once the 
subject rules are notified. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the 
period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
27) TCS Technology Solutions AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions GmbH.
28) Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. merged with Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV w.e.f. August 29, 2023.
29) Diligenta Limited incorporated a subsidiary, Diligenta (Europe) B.V. in Netherlands on September 14, 2023.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Consolidated Financial Statements 2023-24
30) Dividends
 
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2024 include an amount of `24.00 per equity share towards final dividend for 
the year ended March 31, 2023 and an amount of `45.00 per equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) 
for the year ended March 31, 2024. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2023 include an amount of `22.00 per 
equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2022 and an amount of `91.00 per equity share towards interim 
dividends (including special dividend) for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
Dividends declared by the Company are based on profits available for distribution. On April 12, 2024, the Board of Directors of the 
Company have proposed a final dividend of `28.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2024 subject to the approval 
of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately `10,131 crore.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director 
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited (the “Company”) which comprise 
the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2024, and the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements 
standalone statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in 
equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs 
of the Company as at 31 March 2024, and its profit and other 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash flows for 
the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act 
and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matter(s)
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts where revenue is recognized using percentage of completion method
Refer Note 4(a) and 10 to the standalone financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company inter alia engages in Fixed-price 
contracts, wherein, revenue is recognized using 
the percentage of completion computed as per the 
input method based on the Company’s estimate of 
contract costs.
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price 
contracts where the percentage of completion is 
used as a key audit matter since -
there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud 
risk around the accuracy and existence 
of revenues recognised considering the 
customised and complex nature of these 
contracts and significant inputs of IT systems;
Our audit procedures included the following:
Obtained an understanding of the systems, processes and controls 
implemented by the Company for recording and computing revenue and 
the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue balances.
Involvement of our Information technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 
Assessed the IT environment in which the business systems operate 
and tested system controls over computation of revenue recognised;
 
Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of cost and revenue 
reports generated by the system;
 
Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and 
budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/
changes to costs incurred; and

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
application of revenue recognition accounting 
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with customers) is complex and involves a 
number of key judgments and estimates in 
mainly identifying performance obligations, 
related transaction price and estimating the 
future cost-to- completion of these contracts, 
which is used to determine the percentage 
of completion of the relevant performance 
obligation;
these contracts may involve onerous 
obligations which requires critical assessment 
of foreseeable losses to be made by the 
Company; and
at year-end, significant amount of work in 
progress (Contract assets), related to these 
contracts are recognised on the balance 
sheet.
 
Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the 
estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective 
projects.
On selected specific and statistical samples of contracts, we tested that 
the revenue recognized is in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard including –
 
Evaluated the identification of performance obligations and the 
ascribed transaction price;
 
For testing the Company’s computation of the estimation of contract 
costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
 
 
assessed that the estimates of costs to complete were reviewed 
and approved by appropriate designated management 
personnel;
 
 
performed a retrospective analysis of costs incurred with 
estimated costs to identify significant variations and challenged 
whether those variations are required to be considered in 
estimating the remaining costs to complete the contract;
 
 
assessed the appropriateness of work in progress (contract 
assets) on balance sheet date by evaluating the underlying 
documentation to identify possible changes in estimated costs 
to complete the remaining performance obligations; and
 
 
inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to 
determine reasonableness of contract costs.
Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s annual 
report, but does not include the financial statements and 
auditor’s report(s) thereon. The Company’s annual report 
is expected to be made available to us after the date of this 
auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the 
Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, 
profit/ loss and other comprehensive income, changes in 
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 
133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair 
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of 
Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial 
statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) 
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of standalone financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
 A. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that:
 
 
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit.
 
 
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books except for the matters stated in the 
paragraph 2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
 
 
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the standalone 
statement of changes in equity and the 
standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the books of 
account.
 
 
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act.
 
 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on 01 April 2024 
to 10 April 2024 taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified 
as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
 
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2A(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014.
 
 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure B”.
 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations as at 31 March 2024 on its 
financial position in its standalone financial 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
statements - Refer income tax liabilities disclosed 
in the balance sheet along with Note 19 to the 
standalone financial statements.
 
 
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses.
 
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
 
 
(i) 
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(ii) The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 21 to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
(iii) Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any 
material misstatement.
 
 
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Company during the year and until the date of 
this audit report is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act.
 
 
 
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year, in respect of the same declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with Section 123 
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of 
dividend.
 
 
 
As stated in note 26 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the 
Company has proposed final dividend for the year 
which is subject to the approval of the members 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The 
dividend declared is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
 
 
The reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
from 1 April 2023. 
 
 
 
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, except for the instances mentioned 
below, the Company has used accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account, 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the respective software:
 
 
 
The feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the database 
level to log any direct data changes for the 
accounting softwares used for maintaining 
the books of account relating to payroll, 
consolidation process and certain noneditable fields/tables of the accounting 
software used for maintaining general 
ledger.
 
 
 
ii. 
The feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the application 
layer of the accounting softwares relating 
to revenue, trade receivables and general 
ledger for the period 1 April 2023 to 13 
November 2023 and relating to property, 
plant and equipment for the period 1 April 
2023 to 14 December 2023.
 
 
 
Further, for the periods where audit trail (edit 
log) facility was enabled and operated throughout 
the year for the respective accounting software, 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with.
 
With respect to the matter to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors during the current year 
is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 
of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is 
not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 
of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not 
prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the 
Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2024
ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDGZ4646

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i) 
(a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 
 
(B) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has a regular 
programme of physical verification of its Property, 
Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant 
and equipment are verified in a phased manner 
over a period of three years. In accordance with this 
programme, certain property, plant and equipment 
were verified during the year. In our opinion, this 
periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on 
such verification.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than immovable properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed 
in the standalone financial statements are held in the 
name of the Company.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during 
the year.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there are no proceedings 
initiated or pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami 
Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made 
thereunder.
(ii) (a) The inventory has been physically verified by the 
management during the year. In our opinion, the 
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024
frequency of such verification is reasonable and 
procedures and coverage as followed by management 
were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on 
verification between the physical stocks and the book 
records that were 10% or more in the aggregate for 
each class of inventory.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five 
crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks on the basis of 
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly 
returns or statements filed by the Company with such 
banks are in agreement with the books of account of 
the Company. The Company has not been sanctioned 
any working capital limit from the financial institutions.
(iii) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records, the 
Company has made investments and has granted loans 
or advances in the nature of loans, unsecured, to other 
parties during the year, in respect of which the requisite 
information is as below. The Company has not made any 
investments and has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans, unsecured, to companies, firms or 
limited liability partnerships during the year. The Company 
has not provided any guarantee or security or granted 
any loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured, to 
companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or any other 
parties during the year.
 
(a) A. 
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not given any 
loans or advances in the nature of loans or stood 
guarantee or provided security to subsidiaries. 
The Company does not hold any investment in 
any joint ventures or associates.
 
 
Based on the audit procedures carried on by 
us and as per the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has given unsecured 
loans and unsecured advances in the nature of 
loans to parties other than subsidiaries as listed 
below. The Company has not stood guarantee 
or provided security to parties other than 
subsidiaries.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
(` in crore)
Particulars
Guarantees
Security
Loans
Advances in nature of 
loans
Aggregate amount during the year
Subsidiaries*
Joint ventures*
Associates*
Others

Balance outstanding as at balance 
sheet date
Subsidiaries*
Joint ventures*
Associates*
Others

*As per the Companies Act, 2013
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on the audit procedures conducted 
by us, in our opinion the investments made and 
the terms and conditions of the grant of loans and 
advances in the nature of loans during the year are, 
prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the 
Company.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, in the case of interest free loans and 
advances in the nature of loans given, the repayment 
of principal has been stipulated and the repayments or 
receipts have been regular. In case of interest bearing 
loans given, the schedule of repayment of principal 
and payment of interest has been stipulated, and the 
repayments or receipts have been regular.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there is no overdue amount 
for more than ninety days in respect of loans given 
and advances in the nature of loans given.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there is no loan or advance in 
the nature of loan granted falling due during the year, 
which has been renewed or extended or fresh loans 
granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given 
to same parties.
 
(f) 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not granted 
any loans or advances in the nature of loans either 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms 
or period of repayment.
(iv) According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has not given any loans, or 
provided any guarantee or security as specified under 
Section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”). In respect of the investments made by the 
Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section 186 of 
the Act have been complied with.
(v) The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits from the public. 
Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Central Government has not prescribed the 
maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the 
Act for the products manufactured by it (and/or services 
provided by it). Accordingly, clause 3(vi) of the Order is not 
applicable.
(vii) (a) The Company does not have liability in respect of 
Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added 
tax during the year since effective 1 July 2017, these 
statutory dues has been subsumed into GST.
 
 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, in our opinion amounts 
deducted / accrued in the books of account in 
respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods 
and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State 
Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or 
other statutory dues have generally been regularly 
deposited with the appropriate authorities.
 
 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident 
Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty 
of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues were in 
arrears as at 31 March 2024 for a period of more than 
six months from the date they became payable.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no statutory dues of Goods and Service Tax, Provident 
Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other 
statutory dues which have not been deposited by the Company on account of any dispute except for the following:
Name of the 
statute
Nature of 
the dues
Amount (` in 
crores)**
Period to which the amount relates
Forum where dispute 
is pending
Remarks, 
if any
The Incometax Act, 

Income tax
2,112 Assessment Year - 2011-2012, 2018-2019, 2021-2022
Commissioner of 
Income tax (Appeals)
193 Assessment Year - 2006-2007
Income Tax Appellate 
Tribunal

Assessment Year - 2013-2014, 2016-2017
Assessing Officer / 
National Faceless 
Assessment Centre
The Central 
Sales Tax 
Act, 1956 
and Value 
Added Tax 
Act
Sales tax 
and VAT

Financial Year - 1995-1996, 1997-1998, 2004-2005, 
2011-2012, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Assistant 
Commissioner

Financial Year - 2008-2009, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 
2012-2013, 2015-2016, 2016-2017
Deputy Commissioner
233 Financial Year - 1994-1995, 2004-2005, 2007-2008, 
2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 20122013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 
2017-2018
High Court
18 Financial Year - 1997-1998, 2005-2006, 2013-2014, 
2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Joint Commissioner
11 Financial Year - 1990-1991, 1997-1998, 2002-2003, 
2003-2004, 2004-2005, 2005-2006, 2006-2007, 20112012, 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 
2016-2017, 2017-2018
Tribunal
The Finance 
Act, 1994
Service tax

Financial Year - 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 2004-2005, 
2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 20122013, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Commissioner 
Appeals
213 Financial Year - 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 2004-2005, 
2006-2007, 2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2009-2010, 20102011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 
2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018
Tribunal
Goods and 
Service Tax 
Act
Goods and 
Services Tax
17 Financial Year - 2017-2018, 2018-2019, 2020-2021
Commissioner 
Appeals
 
 
** These amounts are net of amount paid/ adjusted under protest of ` 318 crores
(viii) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed 
any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the 
books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
(ix) (a) According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in 
the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not been 
declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or government authority.
 
(c) According to the information and explanations given 
to us by the management, the Company has not 
obtained any term loans during the year. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the balance 
sheet of the Company, we report that no funds raised 
on short-term basis have been used for long-term 
purposes by the Company.
 
(e) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company, we report that 
the Company has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the obligations of 
its subsidiaries as defined under the Act. The Company 
does not hold any investment in any associate or joint 
venture (as defined under the Act) during the year 
ended 31 March 2024.
 
(f) 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries 
(as defined under the Act). The Company does not 
hold any investment in any associate or joint venture 
(as defined under the Act) during the year ended 31 
March 2024.
(x) (a) The Company has not raised any moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments). Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not made 
any preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
(xi) (a) Based on examination of the books and records of 
the Company and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, considering the principles 
of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, 
we report that no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during the 
course of the audit.
 
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 
143 of the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
 
(c) We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures.
(xii) According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause 
3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the transactions with related 
parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the 
Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party 
transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements as required by the applicable accounting 
standards.
(xiv) (a) Based on information and explanations provided 
to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
 
(b) We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till date for the period under audit.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 
192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) (a) The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(b) The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) 
as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve 
Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order 
is not applicable.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions 
of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016) has more than one CIC as part of the 
Group. The Group has four CICs as part of the Group.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xix) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors 
and management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe that 
any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that the Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when 
they fall due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
 
Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main 
audit report which explains that the other information 
comprising the information included in Company’s annual 
report is expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
(xx) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount 
under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the Act 
pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
 
(b) In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and based on an 
independent legal opinion obtained by the Company, 
upon irrevocable transfer of funds by the Company 
to implementing agencies for designated multiyear 
projects undertaken through them, there is no 
unspent amount under sub-section (5) of Section 135 
of the Act pursuant to ongoing projects. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2024
 ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDGZ4646

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the 
Company”) as of 31 March 2024 in conjunction with our audit of 
the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls were operating 
effectively as at 31 March 2024, based on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the 
“Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements include those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and directors of 
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 060154
Date: 12 April 2024
 ICAI UDIN: 24060154BKFDGZ4646
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the standalone financial 
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Note
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
8(a)
 8,336 
 9,186 
Capital work-in-progress
8(a)
 1,450 
 1,103 
Right-of-use assets

 6,154 
 5,695 
Intangible assets
8(b)

Financial assets
Investments
6(a)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Trade receivables
 Billed
6(b)

 Unbilled

Loans
6(e)

Other financial assets
6(f)

Deferred tax assets (net)

 2,524 
 2,464 
Income tax assets (net)
 1,062 
 2,115 
Other assets
8(c)
 3,016 
 2,410 
Total non-current assets
 26,230 
 27,043 
Current assets
Inventories
8(d)

Financial assets
Investments
6(a)
 29,840 
 35,738 
Trade receivables
 
Billed
6(b)
 38,591 
 35,534 
 
Unbilled
 7,477 
 7,264 
Cash and cash equivalents
6(c)
 3,644 
 1,462 
Other balances with banks
6(d)
 2,955 
 3,081 
Loans
6(e)

Other financial assets
6(f)
 1,559 
 1,557 
Income tax assets (net)

Other assets
8(c)
 10,397 
 7,789 
Total current assets
94,918
 92,784 
TOTAL ASSETS
1,21,148
1,19,827
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
6(n)

Other equity

 71,758 
 74,172 
Total equity
 72,120 
 74,538 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
 5,128 
 4,698 
Other financial liabilities
6(i)

Employee benefit obligations

Deferred tax liabilities (net)

Unearned and deferred revenue

Total non-current liabilities
 5,967 
 5,965 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
 1,017 

Trade payables
 Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises 
6(g)

 Dues of creditors other than small enterprises and micro enterprises 
6(h)
 14,520 
 13,768 
Other financial liabilities
6(i)
 6,286 
 6,948 
Unearned and deferred revenue
 2,811 
 2,962 
Other liabilities
8(e)
 4,458 
 3,113 
Provisions
8(f)

Employee benefit obligations

 3,332 
 3,022 
Income tax liabilities (net)
 10,487 
 8,271 
Total current liabilities
 43,061 
 39,324 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1,21,148
1,19,827
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from operations

 202,359 
1,90,354
Other income

 7,273 
 5,328 
TOTAL INCOME
 209,632 
1,95,682
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses

 103,139 
 96,218 
Cost of equipment and software licences
13(a)
 3,347 
 1,416 
Finance costs

Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,887 
 3,940 
Other expenses
13(b)
 40,026 
 41,723 
TOTAL EXPENSES
 151,072 
1,43,992
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX
 58,560 
 51,690 
Exceptional item
Settlement of legal claim

PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 57,602 
 51,690 
Tax expense
Current tax

 14,178 
 12,946 
Deferred tax 

 (135)
 (362)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
 14,043 
 12,584 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
 43,559 
 39,106 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans
 (60)

Income tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or 
loss

 (12)
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 Net change in fair values of investments other than equity shares carried at 
fair value through OCI

 (679)
 Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

(25)
 Net change in time value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

Income tax on items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
 (39)

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)

(394)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
 43,724 
 38,712 
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)

 119.44 
 106.88 
Weighted average number of equity shares
364,68,51,755
365,90,51,373
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL 
(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2023
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2023
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year*
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024

 (4)

(` crore)
Balance as at 
April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
due to prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
 April 1, 2022
Changes in equity share capital 
during the year
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023

*Refer note 6(n)
B. OTHER EQUITY 
(` crore)
 Reserves and surplus
 Items of other comprehensive income
 Total 
Equity 
Capital 
reserve*
 Capital redemption 
reserve 
 Special Economic Zone 
re-investment reserve 
 Retained 
earnings 
 Investment 
revaluation reserve 
 Cash flow hedging reserve 
 Intrinsic value Time value 
Balance as at April 1, 2023

 11,809 
 62,228 

(28)
 74,172 
Profit for the year
 43,559 
 43,559 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)
(47)

Total comprehensive income
43,512 

 43,724 
Dividend
(25,137)
(25,137)
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(46)
(46)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(3,959)
(3,959)
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))

(17,000)
(16,996)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
9,875 
(9,875)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
(5,450)
5,450 
Balance as at March 31, 2024

 16,234 
 55,173 

(18)
 71,758 
Balance as at April 1, 2022

 7,287 
 68,949 

(53)
 76,807 
Profit for the year
 39,106 
 39,106 
Other comprehensive income / (losses)

(442)
(19)

(394)
Total comprehensive income
 39,148 
(442)
(19)

 38,712 
Dividend
(41,347)
(41,347)
Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 8,380 
(8,380)
Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
(3,858)
 3,858 
Balance as at March 31, 2023

 11,809 
 62,228 

(28)
 74,172 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Loss of `47 crore and gain of `42 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a) Capital reserve
 
The Company recognises profit and loss on purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity 
instruments to capital reserve.
(b) Capital redemption reserve
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve 
is created when company purchases its own shares out of 
free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the 
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred 
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised 
in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(c) Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve 
is created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms 
of the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Company for 
acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per 
the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
(d) Retained earnings
 
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated 
earnings of the Company as on the balance sheet date.
(e) Investment revaluation reserve
 
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses 
arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments 
on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated 
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss 
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
(f) Cash flow hedging reserve
 
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative 
effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in 
fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments 
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will 
be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period 
in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
 43,559 
 39,106 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,887 
 3,940 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses and doubtful 
advances (net)

Tax expense
14,043 
 12,584 
Net (gain) / loss on lease modification
(2)

Net gain on sub-lease
(7)
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
(11)
(185)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(8)
(27)
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
(264)
(209)
Interest income
(3,382)
(3,046)
Dividend income (including exchange impact)
(3,288)
(2,112)
Finance costs

Operating profit before working capital changes
 55,304 
 50,852 
Net change in
Inventories
(8)
Trade receivables
 
Billed
(3,145)
(5,817)
 
Unbilled
(82)
(1,157)
Loans and other financial assets
(291)

Other assets 
(3,125)
(384)
Trade payables

 3,686 
Unearned and deferred revenue
(567)

Other financial liabilities
(698)
1,222 
Other liabilities and provisions
1,498 
(654)
Cash generated from operations
 49,725 
 47,963 
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(10,583)
(10,934)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 39,142 
 37,029 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
(6,489)
(3,528)
Inter-corporate deposits placed
(7,580)
Purchase of investments
(128,764)
(122,721)
Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
(1,720)
(2,041)
Payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets
(17)
(94)
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
(411)
(340)
Proceeds from bank deposits 
6,605 
5,930 
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits 
12,966 
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments
135,375 
115,825 
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Interest received
2,670 
 2,933 
Dividend received from subsidiaries
3,534 
 1,866 
Net cash generated from investing activities
10,807 
3,250 
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
(1,061)
(1,006)
Interest paid
(590)
(697)
Dividend paid
(25,137)
(41,347)
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
(425)
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(46)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(3,959)
(4,192)
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(17,000)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (47,793)
 (47,224)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 
 2,156 
(6,945)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 1,462 
 8,197 
Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
3,644 
1,462 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
 1,359 

In deposit accounts 
 2,285 

Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit
 3,644 
 1,462 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Refer note 13(c) for amount spent during the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 on construction / acquisition of any asset and 
other purposes relating to CSR activities.
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Corporate information
 
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS 
Limited” or “the Company”) provides IT services, consulting 
and business solutions and has been partnering with many 
of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation 
journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive 
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and 
engineering services and solutions. This is delivered 
through its unique Location-Independent Agile delivery 
model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software 
development.
 
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS 
House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at 
March 31, 2024, Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding 
company owned 71.74% of the Company’s equity share 
capital.
 
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
authorised for issue on April 12, 2024.
Statement of compliance
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as “Ind AS”) as prescribed under section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to 
time.
Basis of preparation
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
on historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments and defined benefit plans which are measured 
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting 
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of 
the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current and 
non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle. 
Based on the nature of services rendered to customers 
and time elapsed between deployment of resources 
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the 
consideration for such services rendered, the Company has 
considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
 
The statement of cash flows has been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from 
operating, investing and financing activities of the Company 
are segregated. The Company considers all highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value to be cash equivalents.
 
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in Indian Rupee (`) which is the functional currency of the 
Company. Foreign currency transactions are recorded at 
exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing 
on the balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses 
arising on settlement and restatement are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
foreign currencies are not retranslated.
 
The material accounting policy information related to 
preparation of the standalone financial statements have 
been discussed in the respective notes.
Use of estimates and judgements 
 
The preparation of standalone financial statements 
in conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires management of the Company 
to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported 
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
liabilities as at the date of standalone financial statements 
and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the 
periods presented.
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected.
 
The Company uses the following critical accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions in preparation of 
its standalone financial statements:
 
(a) Revenue recognition
 
 
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using 
percentage-of-completion method. The Company 
estimates the future cost-to-completion of the 
contracts which is used to determine degree of 
completion of the performance obligation.
 
 
The Company exercises judgement for identification of 
performance obligations, determination of transaction 
price, ascribing the transaction price to each distinct 
performance obligation and in determining whether 
the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in 
time or over a period of time. These judgements have 
been explained in detail under the revenue note (Refer 
note 10).
 
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
 
 
The Company reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in future periods (Refer note 
8(a)).
 
(c) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
 
 
The Company reviews its carrying value of investments 
carried at cost (net of impairment, if any) annually, 
or more frequently when there is indication for 
impairment. If the recoverable amount is less than its 
carrying amount, the impairment loss is accounted for 
in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
When the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
(e) Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair 
value)
 
 
Measurement of impairment of financial assets 
require use of estimates, which have been explained 
in the note on financial assets, financial liabilities and 
equity instruments, under impairment of financial 
assets (other than at fair value) (Refer note 6).
 
(f) 
Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
 
 
The Company uses judgements based on the relevant 
rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, 
allowances and disallowances which is exercised while 
determining the provision for income tax. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and 
tax losses can be utilised. Accordingly, the Company 
exercises its judgement to reassess the carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each 
reporting period.
 
(g) Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
 
The Company estimates the provisions that have 
present obligations as a result of past events and it is 
probable that outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at 
the end of each reporting period and are adjusted to 
reflect the current best estimates. 
 
 
The Company uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are 
disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising 
from past events, the existence of which will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that arises from past events where it is 
either not probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable 
estimate of the amount cannot be made. Contingent 
assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the 
standalone financial statements.
 
(h) Employee benefits
 
 
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the 
nature of defined benefit requires the Company to use 
assumptions. These assumptions have been explained 
under employee benefits note (Refer note 12).
 
(i) 
Leases
 
 
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies 
to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The Company uses significant judgement in assessing 
the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and 
the applicable discount rate. 
 
 
The Company determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease if 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option; and periods covered by an option to terminate 
the lease if the Company is reasonably certain not 
to exercise that option. In assessing whether the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise an option 
to extend a lease, or not to exercise an option to 
terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances that create an economic incentive for 
the Company to exercise the option to extend the 
lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the 
lease. The Company revises the lease term if there is a 
change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
 
 
The discount rate is generally based on the 
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease being 
evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
Recent pronouncements
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. For the year ended March 31, 2024, 
MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to 
the existing standards applicable to the Company.
Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity 
instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the 
Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables which 
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair 
value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability.
 
The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, 
and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, to be cash 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances 
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
 
Financial assets at amortised cost
 
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost if these financial assets are held within a business 
whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the 
financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.
 
The Company has made an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments 
not held for trading in other comprehensive income.
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss unless they are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial 
recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Investment in subsidiaries
 
Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
impairment loss, if any.
 
Financial liabilities
 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
 
Equity instruments
 
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual 
interest in the assets of the company after deducting all 
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company 
are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue 
cost.
 
Derivative accounting
 
Instruments in hedging relationship
 
 
The Company designates certain foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts as 
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange 
risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow 
hedges.
 
 
The Company uses hedging instruments that are 
governed by the financial risk management policy as 
approved by the Risk Management Committee. The 
policy provides principles on the use of such financial 
derivatives consistent with the risk management 
strategy of the Company. While determining the 
appropriate hedge ratio, the Company takes into 
consideration the prevailing macro-economic 
conditions, the availability and liquidity of the hedging 
instruments, tolerance levels for hedge ineffectiveness 
and the costs of hedging. The hedging activities are 
reviewed by the Risk Management Committee every 
quarter and future course of action is determined.
 
 
The hedge instruments are designated and 
documented as hedges at the inception of the 
contract. The Company determines the existence 
of an economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no 
longer expected to occur, then the amounts that have 
been accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the 
designated hedging instrument is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated under 
the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
 
 
The Company separates the intrinsic value and 
time value of an option and designates as hedging 
instruments only the change in intrinsic value of the 
option. The change in fair value of the intrinsic value 
and time value of an option is recognised in the other 
comprehensive income and accounted as a separate 
component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified 
into the statement of profit and loss when the related 
hedged items affect profit and loss.
 
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or 
loss recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity till that time remains and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss when 
the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and 
loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes 
ineffective.
 
Instruments not in hedging relationship
 
 
The Company enters into contracts that are effective 
as hedges from an economic perspective, but they 
do not qualify for hedge accounting. The change in 
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet 
whether a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired. Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses 
to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company 
recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets 
and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
financing transaction. In determining the allowance for expected credit losses, the Company has used a practical expedient by 
computing the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The provision matrix takes into 
account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward looking information. The expected credit loss allowance is 
based on the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the 
life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
(a) Investments
 
Investments consist of the following:
 
Investments – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investment in subsidiaries
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Investments designated at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
Taj Air Limited

Less: Impairment in value of investments
 (19)
 (19)
 2,405 
 2,405 
 
Investments - Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)

 1,147 
Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
 24,746 
 26,128 
Corporate bonds (quoted)
 3,406 
 3,110 
Investments carried at amortised cost
Certificate of deposits (quoted)
 2,955 
Commercial papers (quoted)

 2,398 
 29,840 
 35,738 
 
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility amounting to NIL and `1,650 crore as at 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 29,840 
 35,738 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net of impairment)
 2,405 
 2,405 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 29,841 
 35,736 
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Certificate of deposits
 2,951 
Commercial papers

 2,400 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Investment in subsidiaries
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) 
212,27,83,424
UYU

TCS Iberoamerica SA

15,75,300
INR

APTOnline Limited
1,300
EUR
 - Tata Consultancy Services Belgium

66,000
EUR
 1,000 Tata Consultancy Services 
Netherlands BV

1,000
SEK

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

EUR
 - Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland 
GmbH

20,000
USD

Tata America International Corporation

75,82,820
SGD

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific 
Pte Ltd.

3,72,58,815
AUD

10,00,001
GBP

Diligenta Limited

1,000
USD
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

CAD
70,653.61
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

51,00,000
INR

C-Edge Technologies Limited

8,90,000
INR

MP Online Limited

1,40,00,000
ZAR

Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) 
(PTY) Ltd.

18,89,005
INR

MahaOnline Limited

 - QAR
 - Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.

10,00,000
INR

1,00,500
GBP
0.00001
Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited

2,50,00,000
EUR

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited

10,00,000
INR

TCS Foundation
 2,405 
 2,405 
(` crore)
In Numbers
Currency
Face value 
per share
Equity instruments designated at fair 
value through OCI
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) 
1,90,00,000
INR

Taj Air Limited

Less : Impairment in value of investments
 (19)
 (19)
 
 *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year

Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of investments other than equities carried at 
fair value through other comprehensive income

(675)
Deferred tax relating to net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of investments other 
than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive income
(39)

Net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and loss on sale of 
investments other than equities carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income
(11)
(4)
Deferred tax relating to net cumulative gain reclassified to statement of profit and 
loss on sale of investments other than equities carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Balance at the end of the year

(b) Trade receivables - Billed
 
Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Trade receivables - Billed – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(633)
(646)
Considered good

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year 
1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good


Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(633)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year 
1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good

Disputed trade receivables – considered good

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(646)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables - Billed
 38,856 
 35,731 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(320)
(275)
Considered good
 38,536 
 35,456 
Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(135)
(178)
Credit impaired

 38,591 
35,534 
 
Ageing for trade receivables - billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year 
1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 30,928 
 6,787 

 38,831 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered 
good

 30,928 
 6,793 

 39,046 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(455)
 38,591 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
7,477 
 46,068 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Ageing for trade receivables- billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment 
 Total 
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year 
1 - 2 years 2 - 3 years More than 
3 years 
Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables – considered 
good
 28,935 
 5,292 
1,124

 35,693 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit 
impaired

Disputed trade receivables – considered 
good

 29,001 
 5,334 
1,136

 35,987 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(453)
 35,534 
Trade receivables - Unbilled
 7,264 
 42,798 
 
Above balances of trade receivables - billed include balances with related parties (Refer note 20).
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks
 
In current accounts
 1,359 

In deposit accounts 
 2,285 

Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit
 3,644 
 1,462 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(d) Other balances with banks
 
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Earmarked balances with banks

Short-term bank deposits
 2,500 
 2,428 
 2,955 
 3,081 
 
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments and unclaimed dividends.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(e) Loans
 
Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
 
Loans – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Loans to employees

Loans – Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Loans to employees

Credit impaired
Loans to employees

Less: Allowance for loans to employees
(31)

(f) 
Other financial assets
 
Other financial assets consist of the following:
 
Other financial assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security deposits

Long-term bank deposits

Others

Other financial assets – Current 
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security deposits

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

Interest receivable

Advances to employees

Less: Allowance for advances to employees
(41)
Others

 1,559 
 1,557 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(g) Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises
 
The disclosure pursuant to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) for dues to micro 
enterprises and small enterprises as at March 31, 2024 and 2023 is as under:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Dues remaining unpaid to any supplier
 
Principal

Interest on the above
Amount of interest paid in terms of section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006, along with 
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during 
each accounting year

Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under 
section 23 of MSMED Act, 2006
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(h) Trade Payables
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
MSME*


Others
 3,269 
 5,729 

9,063 
Disputed dues - Others

 3,350 
 5,731 

 9,176 
Accrued expenses
 5,423 
 14,599 
 
*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Trade payables
Others
3,774 
4,715 

8,556 
Disputed dues - Others

 3,774 
 4,715 

 8,585 
Accrued expenses
 5,183 
 13,768 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(i) 
Other financial liabilities
 
Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
 
Other financial liabilities – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital creditors

Others

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, by the seller of 

 
Other financial liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Accrued payroll
 3,957 
 4,970 
Unclaimed dividends

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

Capital creditors

Liabilities towards customer contracts
 1,419 
 1,075 
Others

 6,286 
 6,948 
(j) 
Financial instruments by category
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
Amortised 
cost 
Total carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 3,644 
 3,644 
Bank deposits
 2,500 
 2,500 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments (other than in 
subsidiary)

 28,152 

 29,840 
Trade receivables
 
Billed
 38,718 
 38,718 
 
Unbilled
 7,542 
 7,542 
Loans

Other financial assets

 2,072 
 2,185 

 28,152 

 56,189 
85,203
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 14,599 
 14,599 
Lease liabilities
 6,145 
 6,145 
Other financial liabilities

 6,492 
 6,601 

 27,236 
27,345

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
Derivative 
instruments 
in hedging 
relationship 
Derivative 
instruments 
not in hedging 
relationship 
Amortised 
cost 
Total carrying 
value 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
1,462 
1,462 
Bank deposits
2,428 
2,428 
Earmarked balances with 
banks

Investments (other than in 
subsidiary)
1,147 
29,238 
 5,353 
35,738 
Trade receivables
 
Billed
35,659 
35,659 
 
Unbilled
7,460 
7,460 
Loans

Other financial assets

1,899 
2,089 
1,147 
29,238 

55,249 
85,824 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
13,768 
13,768 
Lease liabilities
5,659 
5,659 
Other financial liabilities

7,147 
7,288 

26,574 
26,715 
 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, approximate the fair 
value due to their nature. Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other financial assets and other financial liabilities 
which are subsequently measured at amortised cost also approximate the fair value due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair 
value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried at amortised cost is `940 crore and `5,351 crore as at 
March 31, 2024 and 2023 respectively.
(k) Fair value hierarchy 
 
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable 
or unobservable and consists of the following three levels:
 
Level 1 – Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2 – Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 
Level 3 – Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in 
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market 
transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
 
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that 
are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units

Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
 24,746 
 24,746 
Corporate bonds
 3,406 
 3,406 
Commercial papers

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

 29,841 

 29,954 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
1,147 
1,147 
Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
26,128 
26,128 
Corporate bonds
3,110 
3,110 
Certificate of deposits
 2,951 
 2,951 
Commercial papers
2,400 
2,400 
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets

35,736 

35,926 
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities 

(l) 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity
 
The Company’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the 
costs are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations. 
 
The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) to frame, implement and monitor the risk 
management plan of the Company which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Under 
the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Company uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange 
forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.
 
The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount of 
contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
No. of 
contracts
Notional amount of 
contracts 
(In million)
Fair value 
(` crore)
US Dollar

Great Britain Pound

Euro

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Intrinsic value
Time value
Intrinsic value
Time value
Balance at the beginning of the year

(28)

(53)
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on occurrence of 
forecasted hedge transactions
 (139)

(376)

Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on 
occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions

 (55)

(144)
Change in the fair value of effective portion of cash flow 
hedges

 (228)

(456)
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of effective portion of 
cash flow hedges
 (31)

 (84)

Balance at the end of the year

(18)

(28)
 
The Company has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by way of foreign exchange forward, currency 
options and futures contracts. As at March 31, 2024 and 2023, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated to 
`49,180 crore and `46,102 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net loss of `42 crore and 
gain of `12 crore.
 
Exchange gain of `30 crore and loss of `1,159 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the years ended 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `102 crore and `112 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve to profit 
and loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Net loss on derivative instruments of `9 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve as at March 31, 2024, is expected to be 
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2025. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow 
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2024.
 
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on the Company’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation 
/ depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign currencies
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies

(m) Financial risk management
 
The Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which 
may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which covers risks 
associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of 
the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Company.
 
Market risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of 
foreign currency exchange rate risk.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
 
 
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the statement of profit and loss and other 
comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets / liabilities 
are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company. Considering the countries and economic 
environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in 
those countries. 
 
 
The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, 
any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may 
impact the Company’s revenue in international business.
 
 
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It 
hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
 
 
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional currency of the 
Company.
 
 
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures of the Company as of the date of balance sheet 
which could affect the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as 
indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 4,243 

 2,143 
Net financial liabilities
 (11,238)
 (760)
 (2,215)
 (1,530)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `847 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2024.
 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
(` crore)
USD
EUR
GBP
Others
Net financial assets
 2,747 

 2,736 
Net financial liabilities
 (12,419)
 (723)
 (1,923)
 (1,108)
 
 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the Company with respect to various foreign currencies would 
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `1,016 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2023.
 
Interest rate risk
 
 
The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly 
exposed to interest rate risk.
 
Credit risk
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms 
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well 
as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous 
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit. Refer note 4 for methods, assumptions 
and information used to measure expected credit losses.
 
Financial instruments that are subject to credit risk consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, derivative financial 
instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial assets. Bank deposits include an amount of `2,500 
crore held with two banks having high credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of the Company’s total bank 
deposits as at March 31, 2024. None of the other financial instruments of the Company result in material concentration of credit 
risk.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Exposure to credit risk 
 
 
The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk was `90,407 crore and `90,655 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, being the total of 
the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments excluding equity and preference investments, trade 
receivables, loans, contract assets and other financial assets.
 
 
The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding 
trade receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2024 and 2023.
 
Geographic concentration of credit risk
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Gross%
Net%
Gross%
Net%
United States of America
 52.31 
 53.20 
 54.14 
 55.13 
India
 13.22 
 11.68 
 12.03 
 10.37 
United Kingdom
 16.47 
 16.78 
 15.48 
 15.80 
 
 
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the 
location of the customers.
 
 
The allowance for lifetime expected credit losses on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was `88 
crore and `98 crore, respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for expected credit losses is as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,099 
 1,137 
Change during the year

Bad debts written off
(98)
(137)
Translation Exchange difference
(1)

Balance at the end of the year
1,088 
1,099 
 
Liquidity risk
 
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management 
is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company consistently 
generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and when they fall 
due.
 
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(` crore)
March 31, 2024
Due in 
1st year 
Due in 
2nd year 
Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
Due after 
5th year 
Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
 14,599 
14,599 
Lease liabilities
 1,421 
 1,264 
 2,671 
 2,696 
8,052 
Other financial liabilities
 6,182 

6,502 
22,202 
1,303 
2,933 
2,715 
29,153 
Derivative financial liabilities


22,311 
1,303 
2,933 
2,715 
29,262 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
March 31, 2023
Due in 
1st year 
Due in 
2nd year 
Due in 3rd to 
5th year 
Due after 
5th year 
Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
13,768 
13,768 
Lease liabilities
 1,333 
1,129 
2,430 
 2,531 
7,423 
Other financial liabilities
6,828 

7,180 
21,929 
1,171 
2,731 
2,540 
28,371 
Derivative financial liabilities


22,070 
1,171 
2,731 
2,540 
28,512 
(n) Equity instruments
 
The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Authorised 
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each)

Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
361,80,87,518 equity shares of `1 each

(March 31, 2023: 365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each)

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder value, safeguard business continuity and support 
the growth of the Company. The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term 
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The 
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 11, 2023, approved a proposal to buy-back upto 4,09,63,855 equity shares 
of the Company for an aggregate amount not exceeding `17,000 crore, being 1.12% of the total paid up equity share capital at 
`4,150 per equity share. The shareholders approved the same on November 15, 2023, by way of a special resolution through 
postal ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders. The Company bought back 4,09,63,855 equity shares out 
of the shares that were tendered by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares on December 13, 2023. Capital 
redemption reserve was created to the extent of share capital extinguished (`4 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of `17,046 
crore (including `46 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back) over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of 
`3,959 crore were offset from retained earnings.
 
Reconciliation of number of shares
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Number of shares
Amount 
(` crore)
Equity shares
Opening balance
365,90,51,373

365,90,51,373

Shares extinguished on buy-back
(4,09,63,855)
 (4)
Closing balance
361,80,87,518

365,90,51,373

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
II. 
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
 
 
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each. Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per 
share held and carry a right to dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the 
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding.
 
III. Shares held by Holding Company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Equity shares
Holding company
259,54,99,419 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 264,43,17,117 equity shares) 
are held by Tata Sons Private Limited

Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company
7220 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 7,220 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Industries Limited*
10,04,425 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 10,14,172 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Investment Corporation Limited*
46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 46,798 equity shares) are held by 
Tata Steel Limited*
766 equity shares (March 31, 2023: 766 equity shares) are held by 
The Tata Power Company Limited*

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.
 
IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company
259,54,99,419
264,43,17,117
% of shareholding
71.74%
72.27%
 
Equity shares movement during five years preceding March 31, 2024
 
 
Equity shares issued as bonus
 
 
 
The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred 
from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in three 
month period ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders 
through postal ballot.
 
 
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back
 
 
 
The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
March 29, 2022.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
January 6, 2021.
 
 
 
The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the 
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on 
September 26, 2018.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private Limited
259,54,99,419
71.74%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
(0.53)%
Total
259,54,99,419
71.74%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
(0.53)%
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Promoter name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during 
the year
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
Tata Sons Private Limited
264,43,17,117
72.27%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
Total
264,43,17,117
72.27%
264,43,17,117
72.27%
Leases
 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
 
Company as a lessee
 
The Company accounts for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the 
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of 
the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components.
 
The Company recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term at the lease 
commencement date. The cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial 
measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the 
commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use 
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
The Company measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date of the lease. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably 
similar characteristics, the Company, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the incremental borrowing rate specific to the 
lease or the incremental borrowing rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed payments, variable 
lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price of a purchase option where the Company is reasonably certain to 
exercise that option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option 
to terminate the lease. The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the 
lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect 
any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments. The Company recognises the 
amount of the re-measurement of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset and statement of 
profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification. Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Company recognises any remaining amount of the 
re-measurement in statement of profit and loss.
 
The Company has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 - Leases to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease 
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Company as a lessor
 
At the inception of the lease the Company classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease. The 
Company recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In 
case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of 
return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Company is an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the 
head lease and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset 
arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Company 
applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.
 
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company applies Ind AS 115 - Revenue from contracts with 
customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
 
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2024
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,489 
 5,010 
Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

Furniture and fixtures

 1,616
 6,154
(` crore)
Additions for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net carrying 
amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings

 4,608 
Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles

 5,695
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Leasehold land

Buildings
 1,079 
 1,034 
Leasehold improvement

Computer equipment

Software licences

Vehicles
Furniture and fixtures
 1,148
 1,099
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Interest on lease liabilities is `438 crore and `421 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
The Company incurred `221 crore and `211 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards expenses 
relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The total cash outflow for leases is `1,737 crore and `1,732 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, 
including cash outflow for short term leases and leases of low-value assets.
 
The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of 
future cash outflows for such extension periods is `815 crore and `786 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary 
course.
 
The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities 
(a) Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment 
loss, if any.
 
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis so as to expense the cost less residual value 
over their estimated useful lives as prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of certain categories 
of assets, where the useful life of the assets has been assessed based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and 
residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a 
prospective basis.
 
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings
20 years*
Leasehold improvements
Lease term
Plant and equipment
10 years*
Computer equipment
4 years*
Vehicles
4 years*
Office equipment
2-5 years*
Electrical installations
4-10 years*
Furniture and fixtures
5 years*
 
* The Company believes that the technically evaluated useful lives, different from Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, best 
represent the period over which these assets are expected to be used.
 
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for 
its intended use.
 
Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2023

 7,966 
 1,925 

 10,947 

 2,492 
 1,926 
 1,553 
 27,980 
Additions

 1,450 
Disposals
 (4)
 (51)
 (2)
 (230)
 (3)
 (35)
 (37)
 (6)
 (368)
Cost as at March 31, 2024

 8,163 
 1,968 

 11,435 

 2,611 
 1,968 
 1,690 
 29,062 
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2023
(3,675)
(1,340)
(444)
(8,179)
(34)
(2,217)
(1,488)
(1,417)
(18,794)
Depreciation
 (407)
 (119)
 (83)
 (1,336)
 (4)
 (149)
 (123)
 (73)
 (2,294)
Disposals

Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 

 (4,078)
 (1,408)
 (526)
 (9,287)
 (35)
 (2,332)
 (1,576)
 (1,484) (20,726)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024

 4,085 

 2,148 

 8,336 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,450 
Total
 9,786 
*`1,450 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2024.
(` crore)
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and fixtures
Total
Cost as at April 1, 2022

 7,737 
 1,885 

 9,925 

 2,395 
 1,872 
 1,512 
 26,436 
Additions

 1,291 

 1,904 
Disposals
 (5)
 (8)
 (269)
 (3)
 (54)
 (9)
 (12)
 (360)
Cost as at March 31, 2023

 7,966 
 1,925 

 10,947 

 2,492 
 1,926 
 1,553 
 27,980 
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2022
(3,286)
(1,221)
(366)
(7,061)
(33)
(2,085)
(1,367)
(1,348)
(16,767)
Depreciation
 (393)
 (127)
 (78)
 (1,386)
 (4)
 (186)
 (130)
 (81)
 (2,385)
Disposals

Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 

 (3,675)
 (1,340)
 (444)
 (8,179)
 (34)
 (2,217)
 (1,488)
 (1,417) (18,794)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2023

 4,291 

 2,768 

 9,186 
Capital work-in-progress*
 1,103 
Total
 10,289 
*`1,904 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2023.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
 
Capital work-in-progress
 
 
Capital work-in-progress ageing
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,450 

 1,450 
 
 
 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(` crore)
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress

 1,103 

 1,103 
 
 
 
Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects 
are executed as per rolling annual plan.
(b) Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment, if any.
 
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software licences which are amortised over licence period which 
equates the economic useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.
 
Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
 
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2023
 1,727 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (8)
Cost as at March 31, 2024
 1,818 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2023
 (918)
Amortisation
 (445)
Disposals / Derecognised

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2024
 (1,355)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Rights under licensing 
agreement and 
software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2022
 1,530 
Additions

Disposals / Derecognised
 (50)
Cost as at March 31, 2023
 1,727 
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2022
 (512)
Amortisation
 (456)
Disposals / Derecognised

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2023
 (918)
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2023

The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Amortisation expense

(c) Other assets
 
Other assets consist of the following:
 
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Capital advances

Advances to related parties

Contract assets

Prepaid expenses
 2,223 
 1,907 
Contract fulfillment costs

Others

 3,016 
 2,410 
Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited
Tata Projects Limited

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited

Saankhya Labs Private Limited

Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Other assets – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good
Advance to suppliers

Advance to related parties
1,023 

Contract assets
 4,998 
4,678 
Prepaid expenses
1,839 
1,336 
Contract fulfillment costs

Indirect taxes recoverable
1,152 

Others

Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers

Other advances

Less: Allowance for doubtful assets
(4)
(4)
 10,397 
 7,789 
Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Tata Sons Private Limited

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

Titan Company Limited

Tejas Networks Limited

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.

Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.

Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda

Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l.

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

Tata America International Corporation

Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.

Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `177 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at 
March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 
Contract fulfillment costs of `464 crore and `631 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, have been 
amortised in the standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the changes in contract assets.
(d) Inventories
 
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components, b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and 
d) Finished goods. Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies and 
components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Company includes 
direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
 
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components

Finished goods and work-in-progress

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(e) Other liabilities
 
Other liabilities consist of the following:
 
Other liabilities – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance received from customers
 1,757 

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory liabilities 
 2,350 
 2,429 
Others

 4,458 
 3,113 
(f) 
Provisions
 
Provisions consist of the following:
 
Provisions – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)

Provision for foreseeable loss

Other provisions

Other equity
 
Other equity consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital reserve*
Capital redemption reserve
 Opening balance

 Transfer from retained earnings (Refer note 6(n))

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
 
Opening balance
 11,809 
 7,287 
 
Transfer from retained earnings
9,875 
 8,380 
 
Transfer to retained earnings
(5,450)
(3,858)
 16,234 
 11,809 
Retained earnings
 
Opening balance
 62,228 
 68,949 
 
Profit for the year
 43,559 
 39,106 
 
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 
(47)

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(46)
 
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(3,959)
 
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
(16,996)
 
Transfer from Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
5,450 
 3,858 
90,189
 111,955 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
 
Less: Appropriations
 
 
Dividend on equity shares
 25,137 
 41,347 
 
 
Transfer to capital redemption reserve (Refer note 6(n))

Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
9,875 
 8,380 
 55,173 
 62,228 
Investment revaluation reserve
 
Opening balance 

Change during the year (net)

(442)

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l))
 
Opening balance
(20)
(26)
 
Change during the year (net)

(9)
(20)
71,758 
74,172 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
10) Revenue recognition
 
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Company offers a 
consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions. 
 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts 
expended, number of transactions processed, etc. 
 
Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide 
services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined over the period of performance. 
 
In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of 
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract 
costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations. 
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and manufactured systems and third party software 
is recognised upfront at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the customer. In cases where 
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services 
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.
 
Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the 
customer. 
 
The solutions offered by the Company may include supply of third-party equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for 
supply of such third party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether the Company is acting as the 
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is 
acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
 
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level 
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue 
also excludes taxes collected from customers.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The Company’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The 
Company assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer 
to benefit independently from such deliverables.
 
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each 
distinct performance obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable 
consideration with elements such as volume discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and 
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time value of money if the contract includes a significant 
financing component. Any consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for 
a distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction 
price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the elements of variable considerations 
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct 
performance obligations.
 
The Company exercises judgement in determining whether the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a 
period of time. The Company considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered or who 
controls the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of 
such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
 
Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at arm’s length.
 
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain software licence costs which meet the criteria for 
capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is less. The assessment of 
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be 
used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
 
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified 
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of 
time is required, as per contractual terms.
 
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
 
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress 
payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
 
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
 
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract specification and requirements. The Company reviews 
modification to contract in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price could be allocated to a new 
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is 
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
 
The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
 
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Consultancy services
2,00,054
1,88,748
Sale of equipment and software licences
 2,305 
 1,606 
2,02,359
1,90,354

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
 71,349 
 68,240 
Manufacturing 
 18,854 
 16,905 
Consumer Business
 34,612 
 33,169 
Communication, Media and Technology
 35,061 
 33,606 
Life Sciences and Healthcare
 24,352 
 22,398 
Others
 18,131 
 16,036 
2,02,359
1,90,354
 
Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Americas
 North America
 115,581 
 113,208 
 Latin America

Europe
 United Kingdom
 35,625 
 30,676 
 Continental Europe
 20,705 
 19,209 
Asia Pacific
 12,466 
 12,017 
India
 13,105 
 10,941 
Middle East and Africa
 4,393 
 3,921 
2,02,359
1,90,354
 
Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
 
Information about major customers
 
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue during the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023.
 
While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially 
satisfied) performance obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise those revenues, the 
Company has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Company has not disclosed the aggregate transaction 
price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised 
corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts. 
 
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, 
changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc). 
The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `1,34,160 crore 
out of which 50.03% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from 
contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.
 
Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 4,831 
 3,470 
Invoices raised that were included in the contract assets balance at the beginning of 
the year
 (3,278)
 (2,632)
Increase due to revenue recognised during the year, excluding amounts billed during 
the year
 3,595 
 3,826 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 5,204 
 4,831 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 3,604 
 3,573 
Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liability balance at the 
beginning of the year
 (3,110)
 (2,643)
Increase due to invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as revenue 
during the year
 2,541 
 2,589 
Translation exchange difference

Balance at the end of the year
 3,037 
 3,604 
 
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Contracted price
2,05,717
1,93,451
Reductions towards variable consideration components
 (3,358)
 (3,097)
Revenue recognised
2,02,359
1,90,354
 
The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.
11) Other income
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest method.
 
Other income consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest income
 3,382 
 3,046 
Dividend income
 3,296 
 2,106 
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments carried at fair value through 
profit or loss

Net gain on sale of investments other than equity shares carried at fair value through 
OCI

Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Net gain / (loss) on lease modification

 (3)
Net gain on sub-lease

Net foreign exchange gain / (loss)

 (173)
Rent income

Other income

 7,273 
 5,328 
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits

Interest on financial assets carried at amortised cost

Interest on financial assets carried at fair value through OCI
 2,198 
2,131 
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds)

Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from subsidiaries
 3,296 
 2,106 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
12) Employee benefits
 
Defined benefit plans
 
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the 
changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and 
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the 
entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
 
The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which 
are treated as defined benefit plans.
 
Defined contribution plans
 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to 
such benefits.
 
The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined contribution plans to its employees which are treated 
as defined contribution plans.
 
Short-term employee benefits
 
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal 
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
 
Compensated absences
 
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date. Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services are 
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
 
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following: 
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, incentives and allowances
 93,257 
 87,049 
Contributions to provident and other funds
 7,099 
 6,450 
Staff welfare expenses
 2,783 
 2,719 
 103,139 
 96,218 
 
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
 
Employee benefit obligations – Non-current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Foreign defined benefit plans

Other employee benefit obligations

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Employee benefit obligations – Current
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Compensated absences
 3,300 
2,991 
Other employee benefit obligations

 3,332 
3,022 
 
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
 
Gratuity and pension
 
In accordance with Indian law, the Company operates a scheme of gratuity which is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity 
plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon 
completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a trust. Trustees administer contributions 
made to the trust. Certain overseas branches of the Company also provide for retirement benefit plans in accordance with the 
local laws.
 
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Change in benefit obligations
Benefit obligations, beginning of the year
 4,643 

4,672 
 4,464 

4,490 
Translation exchange difference

Changes due to inter-company transfers

 (3)
 (3)
Service cost

Interest cost

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 
liability

 (158)

 (157)
Benefits paid
 (381)
 (6)
 (387)
 (502)
 (6)
 (508)
Benefit obligations, end of the year
 5,273 

5,303 
 4,643 

4,672 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the 
year
 6,389 

6,390 
 5,517 

5,518 
Changes due to inter-company transfers

 (3)
 (3)
Interest income

Employers’ contributions

 1,056 
1,056 
Benefits paid
 (381)
 (381)
 (502)
 (502)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets 
excluding amount included in interest 
income

 (103)
 (103)
Fair value of plan assets, end of the year
 7,214 

7,215 
 6,389 

6,390 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over obligations
 (29)
 (29)
 (28)
 (28)
Surplus of plan assets over obligations
 1,941 
1,941 
 1,746 
1,746 
 1,941 
 (29)
1,912 
 1,746 
 (28)
1,718 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Category of assets
Corporate bonds
 1,960 
1,960 
 1,832 
1,832 
Equity instruments

Government bonds and securities
 3,172 
3,172 
2,917 
2,917 
Insurer managed funds
 1,729 

1,730 
1,387 

1,388 
Bank balances

Others

7,214 

7,215 
6,389 

6,390 
 
Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Domestic 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
funded
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded
Total
Service cost

Net interest on net defined benefit asset
 (139)

 (138)
(94)

(93)
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost

Actual return on plan assets

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
Domestic 
plans 
funded 
Foreign 
plans 
funded 
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded 
 Total 
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 (2)
 (2)
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions

Actuarial losses arising from changes in experience adjustments

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability

Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in 
interest income
 (110)
 (110)

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic 
plans 
funded 
Foreign 
plans 
funded 
Foreign 
plans 
unfunded 
Total 
Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions

Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions
(164)
 (3)
 (167)
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience adjustments
(24)

 (21)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
 (158)

 (157)
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in 
interest income

 (55)

 (54)
 
The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Discount rate 
7.25%
3.50%-4.80%
7.50%
3.90%-4.80%
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered 
employees
6.00%
2.68% - 3.63%
6.00%
1.95%-3.62%
Rate of return on plan assets
7.25%
3.50%-4.80%
7.50%
3.90%-4.80%
Weighted average duration of defined benefit 
obligations
6 Years
3-6 Years
7 Years
3-8 Years

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India.
 
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to measure the Company’s defined benefit plan 
obligations as at March 31, 2024. The Company does not expect to contribute to defined benefit plan obligations funds for year 
ending March 31, 2025 in view of adequate surplus plan assets as at March 31, 2024.
 
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligations are discount rate and expected 
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
 
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Increase of 0.50%
 (123)
 (121)
Decrease of 0.50%

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as 
follows:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Increase of 0.50%

Decrease of 0.50%
 (125)
 (123)
 
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
 
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligations has been calculated 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the 
defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
 
Each year an Asset - Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are 
analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.
 
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31, 2024 as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,
Defined benefit 
obligations

2030-2034
 2,297 
 
Provident fund
 
In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of the Company in India are entitled to receive benefits under the provident 
fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to a trust set up by the Company 
to manage the investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit plan as the 
Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest rate declared 
by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government administered 
pension fund. The contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in 
statement of profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund 
liabilities on the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions as mentioned below, there 
is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected 
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered 
provident fund.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fair value of plan assets
29,170 
25,511 
Present value of defined benefit obligations
(29,170)
(25,511)
Net excess / (shortfall)
 
The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds.
 
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of interest guarantee under the deterministic 
approach are as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
7.25%
7.50%
Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio
6 Years
7 Years
Guaranteed rate of return
8.25%
8.15%
 
The Company expensed `1,681 crore and `1,614 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
provident fund.
 
Superannuation
 
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Company 
makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Company recognises such contributions as an 
expense when incurred. The Company has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
 
The Company expensed `286 crore and `278 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
Employees’ Superannuation Fund.
 
Foreign defined contribution plan
 
The Company expensed `1,316 crore and `1,070 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
foreign defined contribution plans.
13) Cost recognition
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
 
The costs of the Company are broadly categorised in employee benefit expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, 
depreciation and amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include fees to external consultants, facility 
expenses, travel expenses, communication expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses 
and doubtful advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material such 
as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
 
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
 
 
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components consumed

Equipment and software licences purchased
 3,300 
 1,381 
 3,342 
 1,418 
Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock

Less: Closing stock

 (2)
 3,347 
 1,416 
 
 
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
(b) Other expenses
 
 
Other expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Fees to external consultants
 22,539 
 25,539 
Facility expenses
 2,511 
 2,178 
Travel expenses
 2,340 
 2,100 
Communication expenses
 1,528 
 1,588 
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for expected credit losses and 
doubtful advances (net)

Other expenses
 11,011 
 10,208 
 40,026 
 41,723 
 
 
Other expenses include `5,118 crore and `4,777 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, towards 
sales, marketing and advertisement expenses and ` 3,655 crore and `2,544 crore for the years ended March 31, 2024 and 
2023, respectively, towards project expenses.
 
(c) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023

Amount required to be spent by the company during the year

Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above

Shortfall at the end of the year

Total of previous years shortfall

Reason for shortfall

Nature of CSR activities
Education, Research, Health care, 
Conservation and empowerment 
programs

Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per 
relevant Accounting Standard:
Contribution to TCS Foundation in relation to CSR expenditure

14) Finance costs
 
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest on lease liabilities

Interest on tax matters

Other interest costs

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
15) Income taxes
 
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. 
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income taxes
 
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the Company having its branches in India and overseas where it 
operates. The current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax relief 
available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
 
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the 
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income 
tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
 
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and 
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and 
liability on a net basis.
 
Deferred income taxes
 
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for deductible and taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, 
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the 
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
 
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have been established for the tax consequences of those 
temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after the tax 
holiday ends.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
 
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be 
available for set off against future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the balance 
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will 
be realised.
 
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
 14,422 
 13,623 
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years
 (244)
 (677)
 14,178 
 12,946 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year
 (135)
 (362)
 (135)
 (362)
 14,043 
 12,584 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in statement of 
profit and loss is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit before taxes
 57,602 
 51,690 
Indian statutory income tax rate
34.94%
34.94%
Expected income tax expense
 20,128 
 18,063 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported 
income tax expense
Tax holidays
 (6,393)
 (5,097)
Income exempt from tax
 (1,152)
 (736)
Undistributed earnings in branches
 (35)

Tax on income at different rates
 1,313 

Tax pertaining to prior years
 (244)
 (677)
Effect of tax rate change under new regime

Others (net)
 (15)

Total income tax expense
 14,043 
 12,584 
 
The Company benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax 
holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit 
which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from 
export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits or 
gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011 profits from units set up 
under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2024 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit 
and loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from other 
comprehensive income
Adjustments 
/ utilisation
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

(3)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

(8)

Branch profit tax
(135)

(100)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value 
through profit or loss / other comprehensive income
(83)
(36)
(119)
Lease liabilities and right-of-use assets

Others 

(53)

2,274 

(39)
2,370 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(100)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(119)
(119)
Lease liabilities
1,192 
1,192 
Right-of-use assets
(993)
(993)
Others 

2,524 

2,370 
 
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
(` crore)
Opening 
balance
Recognised 
in profit 
and loss
Recognised in / 
reclassified from other 
comprehensive income
Adjustments 
/ utilisation
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

(1)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

MAT credit entitlement

(974)
Branch profit tax
(77)
(58)
(135)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value 
through profit or loss / other comprehensive income
(320)

(83)
Lease liabilities and right-of-use assets

Others 

 2,650 

 (974)
 2,274 
 
Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
Assets
Liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets

Provision for employee benefit obligations

Cash flow hedges

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

Branch profit tax

(135)
Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value through profit or loss / other 
comprehensive income
(83)
(83)
Lease liabilities
 1,090 
 1,090 
Right-of-use assets
(902)
(902)
Others 

2,464 

2,274 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Company is liable to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be 
carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT is recognised as a deferred tax 
asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset 
will be realised.
 
Direct tax contingencies
 
The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other jurisdictions where it operates. 
The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation or eligibility of tax incentives and 
allowances and characterisation of fees for services received. Contingent liability in respect of tax demands received from direct 
tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions is `1,794 crore and `1,471 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 
These demand orders are being contested by the Company based on the management evaluation and advise of tax consultants. 
In respect of tax contingencies of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, not included above, the 
Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e‐Serve Limited.
 
The Company periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax authorities related to the Company’s operations in 
the jurisdictions it operates in. The Company has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent 
income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
 
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India, tax filings from fiscal 2022 
are generally subject to examination by the tax authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation applies 
to fiscals 2020 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation 
generally applies to fiscal 2019 and earlier.
16) Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive 
securities in any of the periods presented.
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit for the year (` crore)
 43,559 
 39,106 
Weighted average number of equity shares
364,68,51,755
365,90,51,373
Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
119.44
106.88
Face value per equity share (`)

17) Auditor’s remuneration
 
Auditor’s remuneration consists of the following:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Auditor

For taxation matters

For other services

For reimbursement of expenses

18) Segment information
 
The Company publishes the standalone financial statements of the Company along with the consolidated financial statements. 
In accordance with Ind AS 108 - Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated 
financial statements.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
19) Commitments and contingencies
 
Capital commitments
 
The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,939 crore and `1,454 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
 
Contingencies
 
Direct tax matters
 
 
Refer note 15.
 
Indirect tax matters
 
 
The Company has ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation and classification 
of certain items. The Company has demands amounting to `516 crore and `498 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the Company based on the management 
evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
 
Other claims
 
 
Claims aggregating `126 crore and `218 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, against the Company have not 
been acknowledged as debts.
 
 
In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation (referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company 
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential 
information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
 
 
Pursuant to an initial unfavourable judgment from the District Court, the Appeals court re-affirmed the order of 
compensatory damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) and remanded back to the District Court to reassess matter 
relating to punitive damages (to limit maximum up to `1,167 crore (US $140 million)), the Company has already paid the 
compensatory damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) along with interest in April 2022. The Company’s second appeal 
in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages subsequently affirmed by the District Court was disposed on July 14, 
2023, with a re-affirmation of the District Court order awarding punitive damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million). The 
Company’s petition to the Supreme Court to review the entire judgement including both the compensatory and punitive 
damages re-affirmed by the Appeals Court was rejected by the Supreme Court on November 20, 2023, pursuant to which, 
punitive damages of `1,167 crore (US $140 million) was paid on December 1, 2023. The Company has provided the balance 
punitive damages amount of `958 crore (US $115 million) in its financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
disclosed the same as an “exceptional item” in the standalone statement of profit and loss.
 
Guarantees and letter of comfort
 
 
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of 
comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such 
managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
 
 
The Company has provided guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any 
outflow of resources in respect of the above.
 
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
20) Related party transactions
 
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company, Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own 
subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Company’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances 
are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 
21 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
 
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2024
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata 
Sons Private 
Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 26,298 
 1,006 
 3,875 
 31,229 
Dividend income
 3,296 
 3,296 
Rent income


Other income


Purchases of goods and services 
(including reimbursements)

 17,707 
 1,344 

 19,300 
Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for expected credit losses 
and doubtful advances (net)

 (1)

Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 3,783 
 3,783 
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipment

Advances given

 1,013 

 1,116 
Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 18,177 

 18,187 
Buy-back of shares
 10,548 

 10,555 
Cost recovery
 4,177 
 4,177 
Sale of property, plant and equipment


Transfer in of employee benefit 
obligations


Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2023
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata 
Sons Private 
Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Revenue from operations

 23,753 
 1,152 
 2,506 
 27,449 
Dividend income
 2,106 
 2,106 
Rent income


Other income


Purchases of goods and services 
(including reimbursements)
 15,069 

 15,859 
Brand equity contribution


Facility expenses

Lease rental

Bad debts and advances written off, 
allowance for expected credit losses 
and doubtful advances (net)
 (1)

Contribution and advance to post 
employment benefit plans
 2,955 
 2,955 
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipment

Advances given

Advances recovered

Advances taken

Dividend paid
 29,881 

 29,903 
Guarantees given


Cost recovery
 3,591 
 3,591 
Transfer out of employee benefit 
obligations


Transfer in of employee benefit 
obligations


Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 8,054 

 1,290 
 9,755 
Loans, other financial assets and 
other assets 

 1,238 

 1,433 

 8,238 
 1,644 
 1,299 
 11,188 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade receivables and contract assets

 7,279 

 8,504 
Loans, other financial assets and other 
assets

 7,737 

 9,152 
 
Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2024
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and 
deferred revenue, other financial 
liabilities and other liabilities 

 7,824 

 9,420 
Commitments and guarantees
 3,664 
 1,412 

 5,089 
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2023
 Tata Sons 
Private 
Limited 
 Subsidiaries 
of the 
Company 
 Subsidiaries 
of Tata Sons 
Private Limited 
 Associates / joint 
ventures of Tata Sons 
Private Limited and 
their subsidiaries 
 Other 
related 
parties 
 Total 
Trade payables, unearned and 
deferred revenue, other financial 
liabilities and other liabilities 

 6,771 

 7,817 
Commitments and guarantees
 4,427 

 4,489 

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Material related party transactions are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from operations
Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH
 3,593 
 3,221 
Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV
 4,009 
 3,402 
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
 3,666 
 3,544 
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 
 2,902 
 1,706 
Tata Digital Private Limited

Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements) and net of cost 
recovery
Tata America International Corporation
 4,184 
 3,824 
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
 3,335 
 2,946 
Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
 1,938 
 1,280 
Tejas Networks Limited

Dividend income
Tata America International Corporation
 1,158 

TCS Iberoamerica SA

Advances given
Tejas Networks Limited

Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables and contract assets
Tata America International Corporation
 1,931 
 1,366 
Tata Consultancy Services France
 1,249 
 1,227 
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and 
other liabilities 
Tata America International Corporation
 2,978 
 2,688 
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.
 1,077 

Tejas Networks Limited

Loans, other financial assets and other assets 
Tejas Networks Limited

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Short-term benefits

Dividend paid during the year

Post-employment benefits

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the nomination and remuneration committee having regard to 
the performance of individuals and market trends.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
 
Transactions with key management personnel for the year ended March 31, 2023 did not include provisions for encashable leave, 
gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid were not available.
21) No funds have been advanced / loaned / invested (from borrowed funds or from share premium or from any other sources / kind 
of funds) by the Company to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries), with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any 
guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
No funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Parties), with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall (i) directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or 
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `15 crore and `13 crore as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.
23) The Board of Directors approved post-employment benefits, payable to the outgoing CEO and Managing Director, which has been 
actuarially valued. Accordingly, the Company has recorded an expense of `48 crore during the year ended March 31, 2024.
24) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. 
The Company will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the 
related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
25) Additional Regulatory Information
 
Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Current year
Previous year
Current ratio (in times)
Total current assets
Total current liabilities
2.2
2.4
Debt-Equity ratio (in 
times)
Debt consists of borrowings 
and lease liabilities.
Total equity
0.1
0.1
Debt service coverage 
ratio (in times)
Earning for Debt Service = Net 
Profit after taxes + Non-cash 
operating expenses + Interest 
+ Other non-cash adjustments
Debt service = Interest and 
lease payments + Principal 
repayments
24.0
23.4
Return on equity ratio 
(in %)
Profit for the year less 
Preference dividend (if any)
Average total equity
59.4%
51.6%
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (in times)
Revenue from operations
Average trade receivables
4.5
4.8
Trade payables turnover 
ratio (in times)
Cost of equipment and 
software licences + Other 
expenses
Average trade payables
3.1
3.6
Net capital turnover ratio 
(in times)
Revenue from operations
Average working capital 
(i.e. Total current assets 
less Total current liabilities)
3.8
3.5
Net profit ratio (in %)
Profit for the year
Revenue from operations
21.5%
20.5%
Return on capital 
employed (in %)
Profit before tax and finance 
costs
Capital employed = Net 
worth + Lease liabilities + 
Deferred tax liabilities
74.3%
65.2%
Return on investment 
(in %)
Income generated from 
invested funds
Average invested funds in 
treasury investments
8.3%
7.4%

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no: 101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
Mumbai, April 12, 2024
26) Dividends
 
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2024 include an amount of `24.00 per equity share towards final dividend for 
the year ended March 31, 2023 and an amount of `45.00 per equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) 
for the year ended March 31, 2024. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2023 include an amount of `22.00 per 
equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2022 and an amount of `91.00 per equity share towards interim 
dividends (including special dividend) for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
Dividends declared by the Company are based on the profit available for distribution. On April 12, 2024, the Board of Directors 
of the Company have proposed a final dividend of `28.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2024 subject to 
the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately 
`10,131 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Subsidiary 
Company 
Date of becoming 
subsidiary
Start date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
End date of 
accounting period 
of subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
Parent 
Currency 
Exchange 
Rate 
Share 
Capital 
Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
Total 
Assets 
Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
Profit 
after 
Tax 
Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore
1 Tata America International 
Corporation
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
USD
USD
 83.382500 

 1,667 5,245 
 3,576 

 5,398 1,454 
 276 1,178 
100%
U.S.A.
2 Tata Consultancy Services 
Canada Inc.
October 1, 2009
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
CAD
CAD
 61.306154 

 1,863 3,973 
 2,067 
 - 11,712 1,419 
 374 1,045 
100%
Canada
3 Tata Consultancy Services 
Argentina S.A.
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
ARS
USD
 0.097220 
 (1)

 (1)
 (1)
100%
Argentina
4 Tata Consultancy Services 
Chile S.A.
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
CLP
USD
 0.085062 

100%
Chile
5 Tata Consultancy Services 
De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
MXN
USD
 5.032106 

 915 2,274 
 1,358 
 5,389 

100%
Mexico
6 Tata Consultancy Services 
Do Brasil Ltda
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
BRL
USD
 16.726009 

 1,770 

100%
Brazil
7 TCS Iberoamerica SA
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
USD
USD
 83.382500 

 1,001 1,822 
 1,811 

100%
Uruguay
8 TCS Inversiones Chile 
Limitada
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
CLP
USD
 0.085062 

100%
Chile
9 TCS Solution Center S.A.
August 9, 2004 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
UYU
USD
 2.220573 

 1,022 

100%
Uruguay
10 TATASOLUTION CENTER 
S.A.
December 28, 2006 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
USD
USD
 83.382500 

100%
Ecuador
11 MGDC S.C.
January 1, 2010 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
MXN
USD
 5.032106 

 (58)

 (26)
 12 (38)
100%
Mexico
12 TCS Uruguay S.A.
January 1, 2010 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
UYU
USD
 2.220573 

100%
Uruguay
13 Tata Consultancy Services 
Guatemala, S.A.
September 1, 2021 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
GTQ
USD
 10.694314 

100%
Guatemala
14 Tata Consultancy Services 
Belgium
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
INR
 89.994776 

 584 1,184 

 2,885 

100%
Belgium
15 Tata Consultancy Services 
De Espana S.A.
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

 (9)
 (17)

100%
Spain
16 Tata Consultancy Services 
Deutschland GmbH
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
INR
 89.994776 

 908 2,364 
 1,455 
 6,769 

100%
Germany
17 Tata Consultancy Services 
Italia s.r.l.
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

100%
Italy
18 Tata Consultancy Services 
Netherlands BV
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

 2,803 5,024 
 1,627 
 1,755 
 8,423 

100% Netherlands
19 Tata Consultancy Services 
Sverige AB
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
SEK
SEK
 7.798734 
 1,157 1,613 

 4,224 

100%
Sweden
20 Tata Consultancy Services 
(Portugal) Unipessoal, 
Limitada
July 4, 2005
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

100%
Portugal
21 Diligenta Limited
August 23, 2005 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
GBP
GBP
105.137035 

 1,662 3,001 
 1,328 

 5,748 

100%
U.K.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Subsidiary 
Company 
Date of becoming 
subsidiary
Start date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
End date of 
accounting period 
of subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
Parent 
Currency 
Exchange 
Rate 
Share 
Capital 
Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
Total 
Assets 
Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
Profit 
after 
Tax 
Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore
22 Tata Consultancy Services 
Luxembourg S.A.
October 28, 2005
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

100%
Capellen 
(G.D. de 
Luxembourg)
23 Tata Consultancy Services 
Switzerland Ltd.
October 31, 2006
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
CHF
EUR
 92.033664 

 852 1,781 

 4,569 

100%
Switzerland
24 Tata Consultancy Services 
France
June 28, 2013
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

 (279) 1,752 
 2,027 
 2,998 

 (14)

100%
France
25 Tata Consultancy Services 
Saudi Arabia
July 2, 2015 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
SAR
EUR
 22.231776 

 1,057 

100% Saudi Arabia
26 Tata Consultancy Services 
UK Limited
October 31, 2018 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
GBP
GBP
105.137035 

100%
U.K.
27 TCS Business Services 
GmbH
March 9, 2020
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
INR
 89.994776 

100%
Germany
28 Tata Consultancy Services 
Bulgaria EOOD
August 31, 2021 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
BGN
EUR
 46.011754 

100%
Bulgaria
29 Tata Consultancy Services 
Ireland Limited
December 2, 2020 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

 1,403 

100%
Ireland
30 TCS Technology Solutions 
GmbH
January 1, 2021 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

 837 1,603 

 1,433 

 (17)

100%
Germany
31 Tata Consultancy Services 
Osterreich GmbH
March 9, 2012
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 

100%
Austria
32 Saudi Desert Rose Holding 
B.V. 
May 26,2021 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
EUR
EUR
 89.994776 
0% Netherlands
33 Diligenta (Europe) B.V.
September 14, 2023 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
EUR
USD
 89.994776 

100% Netherlands
34 Tata Consultancy Services 
Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
USD
USD
 83.382500 

 1,012 1,880 

 2,836 

100%
Singapore
35 Tata Consultancy Services 
Malaysia Sdn Bhd
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
MYR
USD
 17.611680 

100%
Malaysia
36 TCS FNS Pty Limited
October 17, 2005
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
AUD
AUD
 54.181949 

 (61)

100%
Australia
37 TCS Financial Solutions 
Australia Pty Limited
October 19, 2005
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
AUD
AUD
 54.181949 

100%
Australia
38 PT Tata Consultancy 
Services Indonesia
October 5, 2006
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
IDR
USD
 0.005259 

100%
Indonesia
39 Tata Consultancy Services 
(China) Co., Ltd.
November 16, 2006 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
CNY
USD
 11.537158 

 1,056 

100%
China
40 TCS Financial Solutions 
Beijing Co., Ltd.
December 29, 2006 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
CNY
AUD
 11.537158 

 (2)

100%
China
41 Tata Consultancy Services 
(Thailand) Limited
May 12, 2008
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
THB
USD
 2.284452 

100%
Thailand
42 Tata Consultancy Services 
(Philippines) Inc.
September 19, 2008
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
PHP
USD
 1.483081 
 (41)

100%
Philippines

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Standalone Financial Statements 2023-24
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Subsidiary 
Company 
Date of becoming 
subsidiary
Start date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary 
End date of 
accounting period 
of subsidiary 
Reporting 
Currency 
Parent 
Currency 
Exchange 
Rate 
Share 
Capital 
Reserves 
and 
Surplus 
Total 
Assets 
Total 
Liabilities 
Investments Turnover Profit 
before 
Tax 
Provision 
for Tax 
Profit 
after 
Tax 
Proposed 
Dividend 
 % of 
Shareholding 
 Country 
` crore
43 Tata Consultancy Services 
Japan, Ltd.
July 1, 2014
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
JPY
USD
 0.550870 

 1,505 3,164 
 1,421 
 5,155 

66%
Japan
44 APTOnline Limited
August 9, 2004
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

89%
India
45 C-Edge Technologies 
Limited
January 19, 2006
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

51%
India
46 MP Online Limited
September 8, 2006
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

89%
India
47 TCS e-Serve International 
Limited
December 31, 2008
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

 1,870 

100%
India
48 MahaOnline Limited
September 23, 2010
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

74%
India
49 Tata Consultancy Services 
(Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
October 23, 2007 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
ZAR
ZAR
 4.389523 

100%
South Africa
50 Tata Consultancy Services 
(South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
October 31, 2007 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
ZAR
ZAR
 4.389523 

100%
South Africa
51 Tata Consultancy Services 
Qatar L.L.C.
December 20, 2011 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
QAR
QAR
 22.897844 

100%
Qatar
52 TCS Foundation
March 25, 2015
April 1, 2023
March 31, 2024
INR
INR
 1.000000 

 1,306 2,402 
 1,095 

100%
India
Notes:
1. Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2024.
2. TCS Technology Solutions AG is now renamed as TCS Technology Solution GmbH.
3. Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. merged with Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV w.e.f. August 29, 2023.
4. Diligenta Limited incorporated a subsidiary, Diligenta (Europe) B.V. in Netherlands on September 14, 2023.
For and on behalf of the Board
K Krithivasan 
CEO and Managing Director
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director
Samir Seksaria
CFO
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Mumbai, April 12, 2024

Glossary
Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and enable 
much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive capacity and ultralow latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases such as autonomous 
cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT. 
ADM
See Application Development and Maintenance
Agile
A collaborative approach for IT and business teams to develop software incrementally and faster. TCS has 
pioneered the Location Independent Agile™ model that allows for deployment at scale, and helps globally 
distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring stability and quality.
Agile Workspaces
These are key enablers of TCS’ Location Independent Agile model, and represent the next generation work 
environment that facilitate greater collaboration among teams. It is characterized by partition-less open offices, 
informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern collaboration devices for increased 
productivity. 
AgilityDebt™
AgilityDebt™ is a simple index developed by TCS, which uniquely indicates the burden carried by an organization 
that restricts its Agility. The index is arrived at based on a holistic Agile maturity assessment framework that 
measures the gap against required Agile talent, roles, team composition, delivery practices, Agile culture, Agile 
technology and DevOps enablers. TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile 
journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile transformations.
See Artificial Intelligence
AI Assistant
A software agent that uses AI technologies to perform tasks or services for an individual. These assistants can 
understand and interpret human speech or text inputs, enabling them to execute commands, answer questions, 
or assist with tasks like scheduling, reminding, or even controlling smart home devices.
AI Copilot
A virtual assistant that offers real-time guidance and feedback to enhance a human being’s work.
Algo Retail™
TCS’ proprietary approach and suite of intellectual property that enables retailers to seamlessly integrate and 
orchestrate data flows across the retail value chain, harnessing the power of analytics, AI and machine learning in 
the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and commerce to unlock exponential 
business value.
Amortization
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over its useful life.
Analytics
In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in 
business data to predict and improve business performance.
Annuity Contracts
A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.
APAC
Acronym for Asia Pacific 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

API
See Application Programming Interface
APIfication
The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within an enterprise’s systems through APIs.
Application 
Development and 
Maintenance
Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing support, upkeep, and enhancement of such 
software over its lifetime.
Application 
Programming 
Interface 
A set of easily accessible protocols for communication among various software components.
See Augmented Reality
Artificial General 
Intelligence
A type of artificial intelligence that can perform as well or better than humans on a wide range of cognitive tasks.
Artificial 
Intelligence
Technology that emulates human performance by learning, coming to its own conclusions, understanding 
complex content, engaging in natural dialogs with people, augmenting human effort or replacing people on 
execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive Computing.
ASEAN
Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Assets Under 
Custody
A measure of the total assets for which a financial institution, typically a custodian bank, provides custodian 
services.
Attrition
Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization (voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 
months (LTM).
Attrition (LTM) = Total number of departures in the LTM / closing headcount
AUC
See Assets Under Custody
Augmented Reality
Technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a user’s view of the real world to enrich the 
interaction.
Automation
The execution of work by machines in accordance with rules that have either been explicitly coded by a human or 
‘learned’ by the machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include Robotic Process Automation 
and Cognitive Automation.
Avatar
An avatar is a digital representation of yourself, whether it’s in a video game, the metaverse, or wherever else it 
might be applicable.
Basis Point
One hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01 percent.
BFSI
Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
Big Data
A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset that require new forms of processing to enable 
enhanced decision making, insight discovery, and process optimization.
Blockchain
A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, secured from 
tampering and revision.
See Basis Point
BPaaS
See Business Process as a Service
BPS
See Business Process Services
Business Process as 
a Service
Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud computing model. Whereas traditional BPS relies on labor arbitrage 
to reduce costs, BPaaS aggregates demand using the cloud, servicing multiple customers with a single instance, 
multi-tenant platform and shared services, thereby delivering significant operating efficiencies. The pricing model 
is usually outcome based.
Business Process 
Services
Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including data management, analytics, interactions and 
experience management.
Buyback
A corporate action in which a company returns excess cash to shareholders by buying back its shares from them 
and usually extinguishing those shares thereafter. The company’s equity share capital and the number of shares 
outstanding in the market correspondingly reduces.
CAGR
See Compounded Annual Growth Rate 
Capital Expenditure 
(CapEx)
Funds used by a company to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (net of proceeds from 
disposal of such assets) and for payment including advances for acquiring right-of-use assets.
Carbon Neutral
Not adding new greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to the atmosphere through reduction initiatives and where 
emissions continue, they are compensated by absorbing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere through 
carbon offset.
Carbon Offset
Market-based instrument used to compensate for the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere 
because of the organization’s activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) 
and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are some of the popular carbon offsets.
Cash and Cash 
Equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value. Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than 
for investment or other purposes.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Cash Flow
Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Flow from 
Operating Activities
Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities. Therefore, they generally result from the 
transactions and other events that enter into the determination of profit or loss. 
CBO
See Cognitive Business Operations
See Constant Currency
Chatbots
Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the internet. They are 
typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes like customer service or information acquisition.
Cloud
See Cloud Computing
Cloud Computing
The delivery of easily provisionable computing resources – servers, storage, databases, networking, software, 
analytics and more – over the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Cloud Native
A cloud native application consists of discrete, reusable components known as microservices that are designed to 
integrate into any cloud environment.
CMT
Acronym for Communication, Media and Technology
CMMI-SVC
Acronym for Capability Maturity Model® Integration For Services
Cognitive 
Automation
The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more complex tasks that require reasoning capability 
and contextual awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software product in the market today.
Cognitive Business 
Operations (CBO)
An integrated offering where TCS takes responsibility for the outcome of an entire slice of the customers’ 
operations including the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses cognitive automation 
to transform that operational stack.
Cognitive 
Computing
See Artificial Intelligence
COIN
See Co-Innovation Network 
Co-Innovation 
Network
This is an extended, global innovation ecosystem curated by TCS, to harness the innovation efforts of start-ups 
and academia, and incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its customers.
Compounded 
Annual Growth 
Rate (CAGR)
The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming that it has been compounding during that 
period.
Connected Clinical 
Trials (CCT) 
Platform
Part of the TCS ADD suite, CCT is an innovative software-as-a-service platform that enables life sciences 
companies to significantly transform patient engagement in clinical trials and improve adherence to protocols, as 
well as the efficiency and accountability of clinical trials. 
Constant Currency
The basis for restating the current period’s metric at exchange rates applicable for the reference period and 
reporting growth over the reference period. 
Contextual 
Knowledge
This is tacit knowledge pertaining to, and specific to, the granular nuances of a customer’s business and IT 
landscape, acquired on the job over a period of time. TCS teams use their contextual knowledge to design 
technology solutions that are uniquely tailored for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of competitive 
differentiation.
Conversational AI
Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) refers to technologies, like chatbots or virtual agents, which users can 
talk to. They use large volumes of data, machine learning, and natural language processing to help imitate human 
interactions, recognizing speech and text inputs and translating their meanings across various languages.
Core Banking 
System
A back-end system that processes daily banking transactions and posts updates to accounts and other financial 
records; typically includes deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger 
systems and reporting tools.
Core 
Transformation
Modernization initiatives that target the one or more elements of the organization’s operations stack consisting 
of business processes, software systems and underlying infrastructure, usually to enable greater agility, scalability, 
resilience and a superior customer experience. These are typically large in scale and scope, and entail the 
integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.
 CO2e
Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
from carbon dioxide or another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc.
CPG
Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods
Cyber Security
Technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attack, 
damage or unauthorized access. 
Data Mining
Data mining is the practice of obtaining valuable information from data sets. The data can be in any form, such as 
text, audio, or video data.
Data mining aims to find actionable insights in the data that can improve business decisions or solve problems. 
For instance, data mining can discover customer buying patterns and target ads towards people who would likely 
purchase a product.
Days’ Sales 
Outstanding (DSO)
A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivable relative to the company’s Revenue. 
DSO = Trade Receivable * 365 / LTM Revenue
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Deep Learning
Subset of machine learning that uses neural networks with many layers (deep neural networks) to analyze various 
factors and make decisions.
Depreciation
Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.
DevOps
Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a software in production using high levels of 
automation and tooling. TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to market.
Digital
Represents technologies such as Social Media, Mobility, Analytics, Big Data, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence and 
Internet of Things. 
Digital Divide
Digital Divide refers to the unequal spread of technology and the opportunities it affords between different 
socioeconomic groups in a society.
Digital Twin 
A digital replica of a physical entity. For instance, a digital twin of a factory is a virtual model of the factory built 
using its data, process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in the real factory can be studied by 
simulating the change in the digital twin. 
Discretionary Spend Also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, it is that portion of the IT budget which is used to fund projects 
that are not, strictly speaking, essential for day to day operations, but are more transformational in nature. 
In uncertain economic times, when businesses are forced to cut spends in response to decline in income, 
discretionary spend is often the first to be scrutinized. However, what is considered discretionary is subjective and 
may differ considerably amongst businesses even within the same sector.
Distributed Ledger 
Technology
See Blockchain
Dividend
One form of distribution of profits earned by the Company and is usually declared as an amount per equity 
share held by the Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim dividends and the final dividend is 
approved by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
DLT
See Distributed Ledger Technology
EACs
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments that can be used by the bearer to claim 
renewable energy consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.
Earnings Per Share 
(EPS)
The amount of a given period’s Net profit attributable to a single share after deducting any preference dividend 
and related taxes.
EPS = [Net profit attributable to shareholders of the company – Preference dividend, if any] / Weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the period
Edge Computing
Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of the network, in close proximity to the users, but 
not through an on-premises data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases.
Effective Tax Rate 
(ETR)
The proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is provided towards income taxes.
ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax
EIA
Acronym for Environmental Impact Assessment. It is an environmental impact study which needs to be conducted 
as per Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) requirements for new construction/ expansion projects.
Engineering and 
Industrial Services
Consists of next generation product engineering, manufacturing operations transformation, services 
transformation, embedded software and Internet of Things.
Enterprise Agile
The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of the enterprise, designed to empower 
employees, foster collaboration and drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale. 
Environment, Social 
and Governance
Environment, social and governance (ESG) is a system for how to measure the sustainability of a company in three 
specific categories: environment, social and governance.
EPEAT
Acronym for Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool
EPS
See Earnings Per Share
ESG
See Environment, Social and Governance
ETR
See Effective Tax rate
Fair Value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
Fine Tuning
Process of slightly adjusting or tweaking the parameters of an existing model, which has already been pre-trained 
on a large dataset, to perform a specific task.
Fintech
Businesses that use technology to make financial services more efficient. Some fintech developments have 
improved traditional services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have revolutionized services such as 
pay per mile car insurance, or created new products, such as Bitcoin.
Framework
A kind of intellectual property, consisting of software which provides generic functionality for a certain business 
use case, and which is customized for a specific customer’s needs with additional code. Use of such pre-built code 
reduces time to market and results in more stable, reliable solutions.
Free Cash Flow
Represents the cash a company generates through its operations, less the capital expenditure.
Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating activities – Capital expenditure
FTE
Acronym Full Time Equivalent
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Function Point
A function point is a granular building block of a software, based on a functional view of that system, represented 
by a code snippet whose logic helps the user accomplish something. The concept is used while estimating the 
effort for building a new application, by decomposing it into its constituent function points of varying levels of 
complexity. 
Furlough
A temporary cessation of work without pay for the employees, usually implemented by organizations facing under 
difficult economic conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees. 
Gamification
The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage 
user participation.
GDPR
Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union regulation for data protection and privacy. 
Generative AI
Generative AI describes any type of artificial intelligence (AI) that is is capable of generating new content, 
including text, images, video, audio, simulations, code or synthetic data. It involves the use of machine learning 
algorithms to learn patterns across a large data set and generate new content based on those patterns.
GHGs
Acronym for Greenhouse Gas. These are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere leading to global warming and 
climate change.
Global Capability 
Centers (GCC) / 
Captive units
Captive units include both MNC-owned units that undertake work for the parents’ global operations and the 
company owned units of domestic firms, set up in offshore locations offering cheaper labor pool, helping the 
parent to reduce its operational costs.
Green-Tariff
Green tariffs are specialized retail tariffs that electricity distribution companies (discoms) charge for the sale of 
Renewable Energy (RE) to their consumers. Businesses can sign up for these tariffs and claim RE consumption, 
while discoms procure electricity on their behalf from RE project developers.
Growth and 
Transformation
Initiatives launched to improve the enterprise’s revenues, leveraging technology to adopt new business models, 
drive new revenue streams, enhance customer experience or target new customer segments. This is in contrast 
to traditional outsourcing engagements where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.
G&T
See Growth and Transformation
Hallucination
Tendency of large language models to make things up or provide output that seems plausible but is factually 
incorrect or unverifiable.
HVAC
Acronym for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning System
Hybrid Cloud
An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds, public clouds and on premise data centers, to 
meet the compute and storage needs of the business. 
IFRS S2
IFRS S2 is an international ESG reporting framework that requires an entity to disclose information about its 
climate-related risks and opportunities that is useful to users of general-purpose financial reports in making 
decisions relating to providing resources to the entity.
Note: IFRS is acronym of International Financial Reporting Standards
Innovation Days
Focused workshops with a TCS customer where researchers and business leaders from both organizations 
participate to explore emerging technologies for specific customer problems. 
Innovation Forum
TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in major and emerging markets. It brings together researchers from 
academia, innovators from the start-up ecosystem, technology watchers, futurists and customers to brainstorm 
around emerging technologies.
Inorganic Growth
Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather than due to an increase in the company’s 
own business activity. 
Intellectual 
Property 
An asset that is the result of a creative design or idea, such as patents, copyrights, reusable code, software 
products and platforms, and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one can copy or reuse 
the creation without the owner’s permission.
Interactive 
Technology
Allows for a two-way flow of information through an interface between the user and the technology; the user 
usually communicates a request for data or action to the technology with the technology returning the requested 
data or result of the action back to the user.
Internet of Things
A network of interconnected machines or devices embedded with sensors, software, network connectivity, and 
necessary electronics to generate and share run-time data that can be studied and used to monitor or control 
remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.
Invested Funds
Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted into cash.
Invested funds = Cash and cash equivalents + Investments + Deposits with banks + Inter-corporate deposits.
Involuntary 
Attrition
A reduction in the workforce due to the employer’s decision to terminate employment, instead of the employees’ 
decision to leave. 
IoT
See Internet of Things
See Intellectual Property
ISO
Acronym for International Organization for Standardization
ISSB
Acronym for International Sustainability Standards Board
Key Managerial 
Personnel
At TCS, this refers to the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer & Executive 
Director, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit used to measure and report water usage in 
TCS’ offices.
KMP
See Key Managerial Personnel
kWh
Acronym for kilowatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity
Large Language 
Models
This is a language model used to train generative AI and consists of a neural network with many parameters 
(typically billions of weights), trained on large volumes of unlabeled text. By tracking words in sequences, it 
learns both context and meaning in language, enabling it to generate text artifacts that look they were written by 
humans. 
LatAm
Acronym for Latin America 
Location 
Independent Agile
A method to orchestrate globally distributed stakeholders and talent into Agile teams for improved speed to 
market in large transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the technology that allows 
enterprises to overcome location constraints and embrace Agile methods on a global scale. 
Low-Code, No Code
New software development platforms that offer a drag and drop user interface to allow business users to build 
custom web or mobile applications without actually having to write the code. The difference between the 
two is related to the extent of programming ability needed. The former might still require some amount of 
programming, while the latter is entirely drag and drop. In addition to boosting innovation within the enterprise, 
these platforms also drive-up productivity of programmers.
Machine First™ 
Delivery Model
A model that integrates analytics, AI and automation deep within the enterprise to redefine how humans and 
machines work together and to effectively deliver superior outcomes. 
Machine Learning
A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the ability to learn behaviors without being explicitly 
programmed and relying on patterns and inference instead.
Managed Services
This is the practice of outsourcing to one service provider, also knowns as the Managed Services Provider (MSP), 
the end-to-end responsibility for providing, or orchestrating the provision through third party providers of, 
services around a range of processes and functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and 
scalability.
Managed Services 
Provider
Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of providing Managed Services.
Market 
Capitalization
The total market value of a company’s total outstanding equity shares at a point in time.
Market Capitalization = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding shares
MEA
Acronym for Middle East and Africa 
Metaverse
A virtual 3D environment that a user can experience explore on a computer or VR headset. Users can interact 
with each other in several ways, including social networking, gaming, and shopping.
MFDM™
Acronym for Machine First Delivery Model
Minimum Viable 
Product 
The most basic version of a new product built in an agile development cycle, with the bare minimum functionality, 
made available to users at the earliest to get user feedback and validate product value with minimum investment. 
Once validated, its features and functionalities are continually augmented in subsequent iterative cycles. 
Acronym for Mega Joule used as a unit of measurement of energy (electricity as well as fuel use)
Mobility
Digital technology which includes - Information, convenience, and social media all combined together, and made 
available across a variety of screen sizes and hand-held devices.
MSP
See Managed Services Provider
MVP
See Minimum Viable Product
MWh
Acronym for megawatt hours used as a unit of measurement of electricity. 1 MWh=1000kWh
Natural Language 
Processing
Branch of Artificial Intelligence that deals with the interaction between computers and humans through natural 
language, involving complex and challenging tasks such as speech recognition, natural language understanding, 
and natural language generation.
Net Zero
Greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere due the company’s activity are minimized through a series 
of initiatives and the residual emission is compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions 
elsewhere through carbon offsets.
Non-Controlling 
Interests
The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Non-discretionary 
Spend
Also known as Run the Business (RTB) spend, is that portion of the IT budget that covers the basic IT activities 
required to keep a business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary spend remains relatively 
unaffected.
Operating Model
The manner in which processes are defined and activities are organized to create and deliver value to a target 
audience. An IT operating model covers activities around new system development, application and infrastructure 
support whereas business operating models address execution of actions specific to a business function. 
Operating Model 
Transformation
Redefining individual processes by embedding AI, machine learning and other forms of automation to reduce the 
need for human intervention, resulting in a leaner operating model that is faster, more agile and more resilient. 
Such transformations – whether in IT or business – can be significantly accelerated by the use of TCS Cognix. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Options Contract
A hedging instrument that offers the buyer the right to buy or sell the underlying asset (such as stocks or 
currency) on a future date, at a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium. 
Eg: TCS purchases an options contract to sell USD 1 million @ ₹87/US$ after 3 months, paying an option premium 
of ₹1 million. With this, TCS will have the right to sell USD 1 million at an exchange rate of ₹87, even if the 
prevailing market rate at the end of three months is, say ₹85. On the other hand, if the market rate is higher, say 
₹89, then TCS can choose to let the options contract lapse and instead sell at the market rate. 
Order Book
See Total Contract Value
Organic Growth
The revenue growth a company can achieve by increasing its existing business activity. This does not include 
growth attributable to takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
PAS 2060
It is an internationally recognized standard by the British Standards Institution to verify and substantiate an 
organization’ claim of carbon neutrality.
PaaS
See Platform as a Service
Personalization
Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized for a single customer in a single instance.
Platforms
A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other applications, processes or technologies are 
developed. Useful for optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive strategic business 
initiatives.
Platform as a 
Service (PaaS)
A category of cloud computing that provides a platform and environment to allow developers to build 
applications and services over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed by users simply via 
their web browser.
Power Usage 
Effectiveness
It is the ratio of total amount of electricity used by a data center facility to the electricity used by the computing 
equipment in the data center.
Pricing
The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey project or a certain process outcome, depending 
on the nature of the contract. See Realization.
Private Cloud
Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT infrastructure, in terms of compute and storage resources, are 
provisioned for the dedicated use of a single organization.
Product
In the technology context, refers to a packaged software program that is made available to multiple customers 
either on a license basis, or on a subscription basis, to enable the execution of certain common tasks or processes 
or business functions in a standardized way. This is the opposite of bespoke or custom software which is built to 
specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.
Prompt
A specific instruction, question, or input provided to an AI model to guide its generation of content.
Prompt Engineering Prompt engineering is the process of writing, refining and optimizing inputs to encourage GenAI systems to create 
specific, high-quality outputs.
Public Cloud
A computing service model used for the provisioning of storage and computational services to the general public 
over the internet. Public cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing model.
PUE
See Power Usage Effectiveness
R&I
Acronym for Research & Innovation
Realization
The revenue received by the company per utilized effort. Pricing varies by service and by market. Consequently, 
there can be changes in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the underlying business or 
geographic mix during the period. 
RECs/ GOs
Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used in different markets.
Related Party 
Transactions
Any transaction between a company and its related party involving transfer of services, resources or any 
obligation, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Responsible AI
Responsible Artificial Intelligence is an approach to developing, assessing, and deploying AI systems in a safe, 
trustworthy, and ethical way.
Revenue
The income earned by the company from operations by providing IT and consulting services, software licenses, 
and hardware equipment to customers.
RFP
Acronym for Request for Proposal, meaning a document that solicits proposal, often made through a bidding 
process, by an entity interested in procurement of IT services, to potential service providers to submit business 
proposals. An RFP is floated early in the procurement cycle and requested information may include basic 
corporate information and history, financial information, technical capability and estimated completion period, 
and customer references.
Robotic Process 
Automation
The use of software tools to automate high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to 
perform. RPA is best suited for relatively simple and stable processes. Dynamic changes in the environment 
require ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting the economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers 
are preferring cognitive automation over RPA. 
RPA
See Robotic Process Automation
Scope 1, Scope 2, 
Scope 3 emissions
Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Security Operations 
Center
A Security Operations Center is responsible for protecting an organization against cyber threats. SOC analysts 
perform round-the-clock monitoring of an organization’s network and investigate any potential security incidents.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

SEZ
See Special Economic Zone 
Shareholder Payout 
Ratio
The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders as a percentage of the company’s earnings, i.e. Net profit 
attributable to shareholders of the company. Payout can be in the form of dividend and share buyback, including 
taxes thereon.
Simplification
The rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of systems and elimination of redundant systems and 
layers. The primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations leaner and more efficient.
SOC
See Security Operations Center
Sole Sourced 
Contract
Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the needs of the contractual requirements. 
These types of contracts can be won when the competitor set narrows down significantly and comes down to a 
single vendor discussion, given the nature of the client’s solution requirements.
Special Economic 
Zone
In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws are different from the rest of the country, 
with various benefits and tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local jobs.
STEM
An acronym for education in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math.
T&M
See Time and Materials Contract
tCO2e
Acronym for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
TCS Pace™ 
A brand promise that represents the way TCS channels its domain knowledge and organizational units – business 
and technology services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation organization – into internal 
and external co-innovation programs.
TCS Pace Port™ 
Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be experienced. These spaces are close to academic and start-up hubs, and 
enclose innovation showcases, Agile workspaces and think spaces. They encourage brainstorming, design thinking 
and collaborative innovation with internal and external partners. 
TCV
See Total Contract Value
Time and Materials 
Contract
A form of services contract where the customer is billed for the effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc.) logged by the 
project team members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with Fixed Price Contracts.
Total Contract Value An aggregation of the value of all the contracts signed during a period and a useful indicator of demand, and 
near-term business visibility.
Turnkey Contracts
See Fixed Price Contracts
Unearned and 
Deferred Revenue
For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to be delivered. In other words, it is the amount 
that has been invoiced although the underlying effort is yet to be expended.
UPS
Acronym for Uninterruptible Power Supply. It is an electrical device that combines surge protection with a battery 
back-up.
Vendor 
Consolidation
A strategy to reduce costs and the overheads of managing a large number of vendors. Usually entails aggregating 
work currently outsourced to many small providers, and transferring it to a smaller, select set of winning bidders. 
Besides cost reduction, clients use this to reduce complexity and accelerate their cloud transformation journeys. 
Selecting a single strategic partner with end-to-end capabilities to maintain the legacy estate and support the 
modernization drives efficiency, accountability and speed.
VFD
Acronym for Variable frequency drive. It is used to regulate the electrical frequency (Hz) of the power supplied to 
a chiller so that the compressor speed and condenser fan speed (air-cooled chillers only) can be controlled.
Virtual Reality 
Artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real-life environment or situation. It engages users by 
offering simulated reality experiences firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and hearing.
Virtualization
The abstraction of IT resources – like a server, client, storage or network – that masks the physical nature and 
boundaries of those resources from the users of those resources.
Voluntary Attrition
Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly leaving the organization to pursue other 
opportunities, spend time with family, or for some other personal reason.
See Virtual Reality
VRF
Acronym for Variable refrigerant flow. Variable refrigerant flow is an air-conditioning system in which multiple 
indoor units and a single outdoor condensing unit are available. It is precisely the system’s capability that helps to 
control the amount of refrigerant flowing to the indoor units. 
Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed reality. 
Y-o-Y
Year-on-Year
ZWL
Zero Waste to Landfill - It is a specific goal that can be independently verified. The common interpretation means 
that at least 99 percent of generated waste is diverted away from landfill, i.e. all waste produced is either reused, 
recycled, composted, or sent to energy recovery.
Fixed Price 
Contracts
A form of services contracts where the vendor takes a turnkey responsibility for delivering a solution for a certain 
price and within a mutually agreed timeframe. The customer is billed on completion of key project milestones 
and related deliverables. This arrangement gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and execution 
of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project risk.
Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand commonly used terms and phrases in this report. The explanations are not intended 
to be technical definitions. If explanations provided here are found to be different from what is described in the Company’s periodic financial 
statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will prevail.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Glossary

Stakeholder Engagement and Identification of Material Topics1

Key Elements of Annual Materiality Assessments:
Engagement with 
stakeholders
Sustainability 
context and value 
chain
Stakeholder interactions result in the identification of a broad funnel of issues 
important to each of the constituencies. Discussions with internal and external 
stakeholders, are evaluated, to prioritize and arrive at a list of material topics 
with significant economic, environmental, social or governance impact on TCS’ 
business, reputation, and operations.
The company looks at the role of TCS in wider sustainability issues, the impact 
the company has through its customer engagements and its operations, and 
the role that the company experts play in professional associations, industry 
forums and other thought leadership activities to address important issues 
raised by stakeholders.
1 GRI 3-1
Sustainability Disclosures
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures

Material Topics
Climate Change (I)
Principle
TCS’ environmental stewardship 
rests on four pillars: carbon footprint 
mitigation, water conservation 
and recycling, waste reduction and 
recycling, and preserving biodiversity.
Key Themes
Energy management
GHG emissions
Water management
Waste management
Biodiversity
Targets
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
by 70% by 2025 over a 2016 base 
year. 
Net-zero emissions by 2030.
3% YoY reduction in freshwater 
consumption across owned 
campuses.
Reduction in waste generation, 
maximizing recycling / reuse to 
divert waste sent to landfill.
Committed to Tata Aalingana 
program
Initiatives
Natural Capital: Page 24, 25
BRSR: Pages 149 to 159
Environment
Material Topics
Business Sustainability (I)
Principle
TCS takes a long-term view, building 
deep client relationships, and nurturing 
them, which leads to mutual growth 
and sustainable outcomes.
Key Themes
Economic performance
Demand sustainability
Investments in capability 
development
Targets
Maintain a financially strong, 
viable business that is able to 
adapt to changing technology
landscapes, stay relevant to 
customers and profitably grow
its revenues consistently.
Initiatives
Letter from the CEO - Pages 8 
to 10
Financial Capital – Pg 16,17
Intellectual Capital – Page 20,21
MD&A – Strategy for Sustainable 
Growth, Enabling Investments - 
Pages 70 to 72
Material Topics
Employee wellbeing 
and engagement (I)
Principle
TCS is committed to providing a safe 
and healthy work environment to its 
employees, business associates and 
other stakeholders.
Key Themes
Occupational Health and safety 
(OH&S)
Targets
Adopt measures and processes 
that focus on the prevention of 
occupation-related accidents, 
injuries, illnesses, and near misses.
Eliminate hazards and reduce 
OH&S risks.
Providing safe workplaces 
and inculcating safe work 
practices among employees and 
contractors.
Initiatives
MD&A – Page 74
Material Topics
Talent Management (I)
Principle
TCS is invested in its people for the long term,
supporting them to build the meaningful careers 
they aspire to.
Key Themes
Talent Acquisition
Talent Development
Employee Engagement
Talent Retention
Competitive Compensation
Targets 
Attract, develop, motivate and retain diverse 
talent, that is critical for the company’s 
continued success. 
Maximize the potential of every employee 
by creating a purpose-driven, inclusive, 
stimulating, and rewarding work environment, 
delivering outstanding employee experience, 
while fuelling business growth.
Initiatives
MD&A – Pages 72 to 74
Material Topics
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (I)
Principle

and equitable culture, where each individual feels 
seen and heard, and their contributions respected 
and valued.
Key Themes
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
Targets
Embrace diversity in race, nationality, 
ethnicity, gender, age, physical ability, 
neurodiversity, and sexual orientation to 
create a workforce that contributes in more 
ways than one to the societies the company 
works within.
Global DEI policy that prohibits discrimination 
against any diverse identity group.
Initiatives
MD&A – Page 74
Social
2GRI 3-2, GRI 3-3
* Boundary of Impact for Material Topics : Internal (I), External (E) 
MD&A: Management Discussion and Analysis, CG: Corporate Governance Report, BRSR: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
Material Topics
Local Communities (E)
Principle
TCS’ vision is to empower communities by 
connecting people to opportunities in the digital 
economy. 
Key Themes
Local communities
Education and skill development
Job creation
Taxes payable in different regions
Environmental stewardship
Supplier Social and Environmental Assessment
Targets 
Build inclusive, equitable and sustainable 
pathways for all, with a special focus on youth, 
women, and marginalized communities.
Comply with relevant tax laws and obligations 
in all the jurisdictions TCS operates in and 
accordingly pay its fair share of taxes in 
respective countries.
Initiatives
Social Capital – Page 23
Natural Capital – Page 24, 25
CG – Tax Strategy - Page 95
BRSR – Page 143, 160
Financial Statements – Income Taxes – Pg 224 
to 228, country wise income taxes – Pg 304 to 

Material Topics
Technology enabling Building greater 
futures (E)
Principle
TCS engages with clients and partners to help shape 
their journeys to more sustainable and future-fit 
businesses that thrive within an ecosystem. 
Key Themes
Sustainability Services and Offerings
Targets
Help enterprises use the power of technology 
and innovation to pioneer new sustainable 
opportunities, take an ecosystem-led approach 
to build greater futures.
Built a co-innovation network comprising of 
academia, startups, and business partners, 
focusing on social innovation and sustainability 
initiatives that impact people at the grassroots.
Initiatives
Intellectual Capital – Page 22, 23
BRSR – R&D and Capex spend – Page 135
MD&A – Enabling Investments – Pages 70 to 72
Material Topics
Corporate Governance (I)
Principle
TCS’ philosophy on corporate 
governance oversees business 
strategies and ensures fiscal 
accountability, ethical corporate 
behaviour and fairness to all 
stakeholders.
Key Themes
Governance Structure and 
composition
Independence of the Board 
and Minority Interest
Avoidance of conflict of 
interest
Board oversight
Disclosure and 
Transparency
Enterprise Risk 
Management
Succession Planning
Remuneration Policy
Targets
Strong governance at 
board, executive and 
management levels through 
compliance committees and 
compliance working groups
Effective internal controls 
to comply with regulations, 
keep a check on unlawful 
and fraudulent activities 
and internal audits to 
provide compliance 
assurance.
Empowering employees 
and creation of deep 
leadership bench for 
succession planning
Design remuneration 
policy to create a highperformance culture, 
and compliant to local 
regulations.
Initiatives
CG – Pages 93 to 96, 102, 
106 to 108
MD&A – Internal Financial 
Control Systems and their 
adequacy – Page 88, ERM – 
Pages 78 to 87
Material Topics
Ethics and Integrity (I)
Principle
TCS’ core values are: Leading Change, 
Integrity, Respect for the Individual, 
Excellence, Learning and Sharing.
Key Themes
Value, Ethics and Culture
Compliance
Targets
Maintain board, management 
accountability and drive corporate 
ethics, values and sustainability.
Monitor compliance with laws 
of the countries in which the 
company operates, as well as global 
legislation.
Initiatives
CG – Page 94, 95
Material Topics
Data Privacy (E)
Principle
To ensure data protection of 
stakeholders
To make TCS reliable, resilient and 
immune to existing and evolving 
volatile environment of constant 
changes, accidents, attacks and 
failures.
Key Themes
Data Privacy
Cyber Security
Targets
Ensure controls and robust risk 
response mechanisms to protect 
personal data in the TCS ecosystem 
and also in customer engagements.
Protect all information and assets 
that TCS owns or is responsible for; 
thus, ensuring an efficient, safe and 
secure working environment for TCS 
and its customers.
Initiatives
BRSR – Pages 164 to 166
Governance

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
TCS Climate Related Disclosures
In FY 2023, TCS’ climate related disclosures were aligned to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Subsequently, 
TCFD fulfilled its remit and was disbanded in October 2023. 
The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) released IFRS S2, Climate-related Disclosures, in January 2024, which is aligned 
with the recommendations of TCFD. This year, TCS has disclosed information related to climate-related risk and opportunities aligned with 
IFRS S2. IFRS S2 applies to disclosure of (1) climate related risks (physical and transitional), to which the entity is exposed and (2) climate 
related opportunities available to the entity. 
The disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 are structured around the core content related to the following sections: 
Section 1: Governance
Section 2: Strategy
Section 3: Risk Management
Section 4: Metrics and Targets
Each of the above topics are addressed below.
Section 1: Governance
TCS has a Board level Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC) that oversees different aspects of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC)
The SRC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 3 members including the CEO. It reviews the climate change 
strategy, approach, and performance of the organization with respect to sustainability and climate change. 
The SRC formally meets twice every year to review policies and sustainability performance, including climate change and carbon 
performance. The board oversight helps drive the program effectively with greater accountability. 
The CEO, as a part of the SRC, is directly responsible for the efficient operations of the facility and hence is better able to review 
performance and drive improvement. The updates are provided by the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and is supported by 
the Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health and Safety (ESHS) who oversees the environment and climate change implementation 
at the organisation. 
TCS’ carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 2016 
base year), and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, was reviewed and approved by the committee.
Statement by Senior management: Refer page number 132 in BRSR for N G Subramaniam, COO & Executive Director’s statement. 
During the half yearly meetings, the SRC monitors the progress towards the carbon targets and the carbon reduction initiatives that 
have been implemented and planned.
Competency: 
TCS has a competent team working on Environmental Sustainability. TCS’ Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health, and Safety (ESHS) is 
a Doctorate in Environmental Science and Engineering and has over 30 years of post-doctoral experience in environmental sustainability 
and climate change. The ESHS team has recruited professionals who have the requisite qualification and experience in climate change 
and environmental sustainability. The team has undergone training in advanced topics and regularly participates in external training 
programs and sessions on the emerging frameworks and regulatory requirements around climate change.
TCS is also a member of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and National Association of Software and Services Companies 
(NASSCOM), and the company participates as panelist, assessor, or speaker in their training and capacity building workshops on climate 
change with the perspective of spreading know-how on ESG, climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies among other industries. 
Remuneration: Refer page number 103 for information on remuneration of the Board members.
Apart from the SRC, TCS also has the Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for risk management oversight at the 
corporate level.
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
The RMC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 5 members including one additional independent director, 2 
executive directors, i.e. CEO, COO, and one company executive, CFO. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
The RMC formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s risk management policy.
Climate change risks and opportunities are covered under the strategic and operational risks for the Company and are reviewed in 
the RMC committee meetings.
Section 2: Strategy
Climate related risks continue to challenge businesses in every possible way, sometimes amplifying existing risks. Not only is their nature 
evolving, but their speed of impacting the organisation’s operations is also increasing. Operating in an uncertain and ever-changing 
environment, TCS’ global operations bring in considerable complexities and TCS’ robust enterprise risk management framework aids 
in ensuring the strategic objectives are achieved. This framework enables risk identification for short, medium, and long term, risk 
assessment, risk response planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall risk governance.
Climate-related risks and opportunities
Refer to the MD&A section on page number 86 of the TCS Integrated Annual Report for identified climate-related risk and opportunities 
that could reasonably affect TCS’ prospects. The section includes the company’s adaptation methodology which will be implemented over 
following time horizons:
 Time-horizon
From (years)
To (years)
Short-term

Medium-term

Long-term

Beyond 10
Below is a brief description of TCS’ approach and identification of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Climate related 
R&O
TCS Approach
Current regulation
Regulations undergo frequent changes and, to accommodate such changes, the company must be aware and 
responsive. In India operations, TCS must comply with all the environmental consent conditions around emissions, 
water discharge, waste recycling etc. These regulations are included in TCS’ risk assessment as compliance risk 
and thereafter integrated into its mitigation plans. The company also reports to the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) mandated BRSR framework, which includes non-financial indicators and is a part of this Integrated 
Annual report. This year as per BRSR reporting requirements, TCS is also undergoing reasonable assurance for the 
core indicators of BRSR.
Emerging 
regulation
Emerging regulations including carbon taxes (coal or fossil fuel taxes leading to escalation in the electricity tariff), 
mandatory energy audits are examples which are likely to impact the company. Regulations around procurement 
of renewable energy, which is a key driver of the company’s climate change mitigation plan, is also ever evolving 
in all major geographies. TCS keeps a close watch on the emerging regulations and plans its organizational 
sustainability strategy and roadmap to adapt to those changes.
Technology
With more energy efficient and eco-friendly building and IT equipment coming in the market, keeping TCS’ offices 
eco-efficient is an ongoing process wherein the company evaluates the technology and suitability and work on 
a phaseout plan to move to the new more efficient technology. These are considered as operational risks and 
opportunities which drive the company to make its infrastructure more climate resilient.
Legal
TCS tracks environmental legal compliance (air emissions, water discharges, waste management and others) on 
periodic basis and have a very robust internal compliance management system to identify and comply with all legal 
requirements of current, amended and new regulations. While the possibility of a litigation risk is very low, climate 
change impacts can pose few risks indirectly to TCS.
Market
Climate change is driving a lot of changes in the company’s customer behaviour, thus creating new markets and 
new opportunities, giving TCS an opportunity to partner with them in their climate change mitigation journey by 
providing solutions, services, and process automation which helps in emission reduction.
Reputation
Reputational risk is relevant to the company as the investor and customer community is becoming increasingly 
aware of climate change related issues. It is important to demonstrate leadership in climate action to maintain 
reputation. Climate risks are hence included as strategic risks which is reviewed by leadership to position the 
company better in the market. This information is required to respond to CDP supply chain module and various 
customer surveys on sustainability like Dow Jones Sustainability Index, EcoVadis, MSCI, Sustainalytics, etc. 
Hence performing well in these ratings/scorings is very crucial in maintaining the market reputation which the 
organization holds.
Acute physical
Acute physical risks associated with extreme weather events is relevant as TCS has substantial operations in coastal 
cities in India which are exposed to extreme weather events like heavy precipitation, flood, and cyclones. E.g., The 
company’s offices located in coastal cities like Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, Kochi are exposed to physical risks 
from cyclonic events and therefore adequate mitigation plans are in place. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
Climate related 
R&O
TCS Approach
Chronic physical
Despite the Paris Agreement and global climate action, global warming continues unabated. Having presence in 
many major cities across the world, TCS is subject to climate change related chronic physical impacts like change 
in precipitation pattern, with resultant effects like drought or flood. Also, with TCS’s presence in few coastal 
cities, rise in sea level and related impacts like land submergence, saltwater intrusion, disruption to network and 
communication systems are more likely. These risks are long term and included from perspective of planning 
appropriate infrastructure. TCS has set targets to reduce carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 70% in 2025 
compared to 2016 base year and achieve Net Zero by 2030. These are aligned with the global goals taken under 
the Paris agreement to fight global warming by keeping the planet’s temperature below 1.5 degrees Celsius. TCS 
has reduced its absolute carbon footprint across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 80% in FY 2024 over a baseline of 2016, 
exceeding TCS’ target achievement by 10%, one year ahead of time.
Business model and value chain

covered here along with some mitigation plans.
Customers: TCS is an IT services and business solution provider company working mostly with Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 corporations 
and the public sector. The customer perception around climate change risks has strengthened, especially in the major markets, and this is 
reflected in the increasing customer requests on climate change performance through platforms like CDP, SBTi commitment, RFPs. These 
all show how adapting to changing customer behaviour around climate change is crucial for business continuity.
TCS’ stakeholders, especially its customers and employees look at it as a responsible corporate citizen when it comes to climate action. 
The company’s efforts in this domain have been recognized through ESG ratings and CDP ratings / climate change performance (carbon 
reduction against targets, % renewable energy). In an event, if TCS is unable to meet its climate change commitments, it can lead to 
a negative impact on its brand and reputation, as well as ESG ratings. A failure to meet the targets, customer expectations or evolving 
regulatory requirements could also potentially affect its market capitalization. TCS ensures that these risks are identified at an early stage 
and work on mitigation and improvement plans. 
The company also has a robust business continuity plan. It is an end-to-end framework that effectively manages through defined policy, 
procedures, guidelines and through in-house developed tools that support planning and communication with all stakeholders. The 
framework is fully compliant and certified to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is integrated with TCS quality management system for 
consistent deployment across the organization. TCS also has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, 
cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be 
taken, evacuation procedures and post incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario.
Suppliers: Towards ongoing sustainability assessment, TCS launched its Supplier Sustainability Assessment Platform in FY 2023 and 
initiated on-boarding of its top supply chain partners. Through this platform, TCS plans to support its suppliers with engagement and 
guidance to help them improve their sustainability performance. In FY 2024, the company has successfully assessed 17% of its value 
chain partners (by spend) for sustainability criteria. These efforts ensure that all suppliers who form upstream part of the value chain are 
assessed for sustainability and climate risks. 
Strategy and decision-making
Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced TCS’ strategy in the following ways:
 Area
Description of influence
Products and 
services
As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the company is seeing opportunities to provide technologyled solutions to help them achieve their sustainability goals. The change in technology consumption reflects the 
prevailing trends in the economy. Recent events have accelerated digital adoption, put the spotlight on supply 
chain resilience and added urgency to the sustainability imperative. Each of these represents an opportunity 
that can contribute towards the growth of not just as one company, but of the ecosystem. TCS leveraged its deep 
expertise in IoT, advanced analytics, and machine learning to come up with a suite of offerings in this space, 
including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™, and TCS Envirozone™. Clients across industries are 
engaging us to develop innovative technology led solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to measure and 
track green-house gas emissions across their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste 
and promote recycling.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 Area
Description of influence
Supply chain and/
or value chain
Supply Chain sustainability through responsible sourcing is one of the risk mitigations that TCS has identified 
under its sustainability risk. TCS’s Green Procurement policy outlines its commitment to making its supply chain 
more responsible and sustainable. Energy efficiency is one of the major procurement considerations in all the 
company’s IT assets procurement as this is directly correlated with its emission profile. Climate related risks play a 
very important role in supply chain engagements, and TCS is working with its suppliers to bring in improvements 
in overall supply chain sustainability related aspects. As mentioned in the previous section on suppliers, TCS has 
launched the supplier sustainability assessment platform to facilitate improvements in the supply chain through 
evaluation and assessment of suppliers.
Investment in R&I
TCS’ investments in R&I have resulted in solutions like Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been 
using Clever Energy for the last several years to monitor and help reduce its energy consumption and is now 
commercially selling it and the other two solutions to clients to help them achieve their sustainability goals. 
Additionally, TCS has been investing in building green campuses (IGBC certified). These initiatives have enabled 
reduction of carbon footprint
Operations
Climate Change risks play an important consideration in TCS’ operations. TCS has created an environmentally 
sustainable approach by creating green policies, processes, frameworks, and infrastructure. The company’s 
campuses are designed to withstand extreme weather events and the business continuity plans are tested 
periodically to ensure continued operations without any disruption. Green buildings, efficient operations, green IT, 
the use of renewable energy to reduce carbon footprint; adoption of newer technologies and methods to manage 
waste in line with circular economy principles are integral to business operations. These all help the company in 
achieving its emission reduction targets and journey towards Net Zero by 2030.
Direct costs, Capital 
expenditures, 
Capital allocation 
assets
Climate risks and opportunities are one of the factors while making financial considerations especially while 
making investments in offices, equipment, and renewable energy production. Investment in these areas 
constitutes a substantial share of the company’s overall capital investment. Major investments are in green 
buildings, roof top solar and other energy efficiency initiatives. Refer BRSR section, Principle 6, page number 152, 
153 for more details on the initiatives that also help the company to position itself as leaders in the climate domain 
hence contribute substantially to its market value.
Financial position, financial performance, and cash flows
Substantive financial or strategic impact of Risk Assessment: 
Climate risks like business disruption, changing regulatory landscape, acute physical stress and transition risks are identified, prioritized, 
assessed and managed by the ERM team. Anything with the potential to disrupt regular operations by more than 10% and triggers 
Business Continuity Plans at the sites is considered as substantial. The financial risk exposure is calculated considering the following 
quantifiable indicators - (1) Proportion of business units affected OR percentage of operations impacted; (2) Probability of occurrence 
of extreme climate related events, and 3) the impact potential at the affected locations based on size of operation. In any given year 
the overall potential financial impact due to an extreme weather event is considered as 0.75% of the revenue. TCS considers a risk 
tolerance of 10% of the exposure for climate related risks and considered as substantive. Based on the severity and the risk exposure, the 
appropriate risk response is finalized, and mitigation actions are assigned to relevant functions.
The company has identified the following climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on the 
company’s business:
Risk of impact on direct operations: TCS has large operations based out of offices in coastal cities which have a high exposure to 
extreme weather events like high rainfall, cyclones, rise in sea level, etc. During FY 2024, there were no major cyclones that effected 
the company’s campuses. However, earlier event like Cyclone Amphan led to damages in its Kolkata, India campus specifically to the 
rooftop solar PV installations, solar water heater panels, roof mounted HVAC components, HRW electrical panel room, energy bin 
of biogas chamber, apart from multiple water leakages at basement and many other external physical damages. This indicates the 
increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as cyclones and floods and the impact these can cause directly 
on the operations. TCS accounts for such risks at design stage through cyclone and flood water resistance considerations while 
constructing new buildings. For greenfield projects, the building structure is designed (a) for seismic load as per IS 1893 (Part-1) 
2016; Amendment No:2-2020 and (b) for wind speeds as per IS 875 codes. 
 
TCS has a strong business continuity plan (critical business operations can be shifted to another city/country/geography) and 
therefore these physical risks will not affect the business operations significantly, except for the financial implications related to 
infrastructure damages (if any). Hence the potential financial impact due to physical damage because of extreme weather events is 
calculated as a percentage of revenue using a risk factor, which in turn is arrived through the company’s risk assessment exercises. 
The potential financial impact will be 0.75% of the revenue which comes to approximately ₹ 1,807 crores or US$218 million.
Risk of increase in capital expenditure: TCS is an IT services, consulting, and business solutions organization with a presence across 
multiple geographies, industries, services and products. Being one of the frontrunners in ESG performance, in 2021, the company 
has taken up ambitious carbon targets as mentioned in previous sections and have also achieved its near-term targets 2 years ahead 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
of timelines. In FY 2024, TCS has further brought down its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission by 80% over base year 2016. This was 
despite increased electricity consumption in FY 2024 from employees’ return to office and addition of new offices to the reporting 
boundary. Apart from organizational level commitments, the emerging regulations also motivate TCS to transition towards low 
carbon business. TCS will need additional CAPEX and OPEX to ensure compliance. The company has envisaged this as a risk, and 
is developing greener solutions and transitioning to renewable energy. In FY 2024, RE accounts for 74% of total energy and have 
increased percentage of green tariff.
 
TCS’ new campuses are designed according to green building standards for energy and resource efficiency to reduce the carbon 
footprint. The company invests in energy efficiency initiatives taking into consideration a payback period of 4-5 years. It is also 
retrofitting its older buildings with energy efficient equipment. 
 
ii. 
TCS’ IoT-based Real-time Energy Management System (TCS Clever Energy™) initiative that involves real time monitoring to 
optimize the operational energy efficiency is used across all offices. This smart, scalable, analytics driven IoT solution uses TCS 
Connected Universe Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone enabling visualization of data acquired from 
various locations and facilities’ energy meters and sensors. 
 
iii. 
While the above initiatives were carried out across TCS India campuses, focus towards achieving Net Zero is also driven through 
carbon neutrality across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in North America, UK and Ireland, Europe, Asia Pacific, Japan, Latin 
America, and Middle East & Africa.
Risk of Impacting Reputation and Brand Value: TCS is an IT services company working mostly with Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 
corporations and the public sector. The customer perception around climate change risks has strengthened, especially in the major 
markets, and this is reflected in the increasing customer requests on climate change performance through platforms like CDP, SBTi 
commitments, RFPs and other surveys/ questionnaires. Thus, in an event if TCS is unable to meet its climate change commitments, it 
can impact the company’s brand and reputation, as well as international ESG ratings. The risk due to the same is realized in terms of 
the company’s brand value and the risk is estimated as 0.1% of the same. In FY 2024, TCS brand value rose to US$19.2 billion (Source: 
Brand Finance). Hence, the potential financial impact due to this risk is estimated at US$19.2 million. To mitigate these impacts, the 
company has undertaken many initiatives to mitigate its environmental impact which includes green building design, energy efficient 
building and IT infrastructure, and transition to renewable energy. All the stakeholders are well informed about TCS’ climate change 
performance through its external disclosures which helps to minimize the reputational risks. 
 
TCS has identified the following climate-related opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on 
its business:
 
TCS has a large building footprint with its campuses alone covering more than 38 million sq. ft area in India. Out of this, over 67.3% 
of its buildings are certified to IGBC Green Building standards. TCS has steadily increased its portfolio of green buildings, thereby 
ensuring energy efficiency in its buildings and reducing both emissions and operating expenditures. Apart from this, the company 
is also working on improving and upgrading its energy efficiency in existing buildings. Few years back, TCS India took up a major 
project to change the luminaires to LEDs across its locations which contributed towards significant energy savings. Major retrofits 
were carried out at some locations with legacy infrastructure to improve the efficiency levels. The TCS Remote Energy Management 
and Control program witnessed rapid scaling up and further maturity during the year by leveraging IoT platform to acquire asset 
(chillers, air handling units, etc.) level data which is analyzed to improve asset efficiency and operations. The data center PUE 
(weighted average) of 1.70 was achieved for the corporate data centers at Mumbai and Chennai. In FY 2024, TCS has achieved 
a saving to the tune of 16,301 MWh due to energy saving initiatives. (This includes HVAC energy efficiency projects, UPS based 
energy efficiency projects, expansion in green buildings and real time monitoring of energy efficiency). TCS uses multiple energy 
sources in its daily operations, electricity being the primary source. Majority of the electricity comes from conventional sources, 
but TCS has increased the share of renewable electricity (RE) over the years through onsite rooftop solar generation, third party 
procurement and purchase of Energy Attribute Certificate (EAC) (in select geographies). The RE consumption as a percentage of 
total electricity consumption has increased from 15.6% in FY 2021 to 74% in FY 2024. TCS’ owned roof top solar projects contribute 
3 % of the same. Apart from roof top solar photo voltaic installations, TCS increased the renewable energy procurement through a 
switch over to green tariffs for operations and open access power purchase agreements (PPA).
 
ii. 
TCS is looking at developing solutions that respond to changing consumer behaviour. Through its Connected Marketing team, 
TCS uses sustainability in the social media perspective to better understand the ‘green’ needs of its consumers, and to also 
see how consumers are reacting to the new green products that have been introduced. Changing consumer behaviour and 
expectations are most reflective in the power utility space. Towards this area, TCS has developed several strategic partnerships, 
towards thought-leadership development and solution enhancement (Example: Smart Power and Smart Energy are key solution 
areas of TCS’ Utilities Industry Unit). 
Climate Resilience 
A brief description of the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 
2oC or lower scenario.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
Climate related 
scenario
Parameters, assumptions, analytical choices
Transition 
scenarios IEA 
B2DS
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS takes a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and 
opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis of the 
macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included,
nature loss and ecological degradation, 
resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, 
changing customer and workforce preferences, 
the rise of extreme weather, 
increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of externalities, 
digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and 
rising incomes.
Detailed analysis was conducted of material climate change transition risks and opportunities across value chain 
and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification of areas 
of potential magnification and hedge opportunities. The key value driver analysis assesses climate risks and 
opportunities across 3 stages of the value chain including a) Supply Chain (input supplies costs, disruption and 
access to supplies) b) Operations (carbon costs, operating costs, insurance/ damage costs due to disruption of 
operation) and c) End Markets (demand for low carbon services/ products, market share and competition). In the 
transition scenario, the IEA B2DS approach has been selected as its more conservative scenario. The inputs included 
those from Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) reports, the Nationally Determined Contributions 
(NDCs), the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Government of India plan on energy efficiency and solar 
energy. The assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and 
increased energy demand. Changing customer behaviour and carbon costs are assessed as a transition risk to 
TCS with a growing number of jurisdictions at regional and national level planning to implement a carbon tax or 
emission trading scheme.
Physical 
climate 
scenarios 
RCP 8.5
The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS takes a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and 
opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis of the 
macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included,
nature loss and ecological degradation, 
resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, 
changing customer and workforce preferences, 
the rise of extreme weather, 
increasing regulations, pricing, and disclosure of externalities, 
digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and 
rising incomes
Detailed analysis was conducted of material climate change physical risks and opportunities across value chain 
and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification of areas of 
potential magnification and hedge opportunities. The key value drivers’ analysis assesses them across 3 stages of 
the value chain including a) Supply Chain (input supplies costs, disruption and access to supplies) b) Operations 
(carbon costs, operating costs, insurance/ damage costs due to disruption of operation) and c) End Markets 
(demand for low carbon services/ products, market share and competition) The physical risk is assessed using the 
RCP 8.5 scenario. The RCP 8.5 scenario takes a global warming between 3-4 degrees above pre-industrial levels 
which is a conservative scenario and helps TCS understand the worst-case climate impacts on its operations. The 
inputs included IPCC reports, the NDCs, the SDGs and Govt. of India plan on energy efficiency and solar energy. The 
assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and increased energy 
demand. Few strategies to mitigate physical risks of climate change include:
A robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to respond to climate events 
Investments in climate resilient infrastructure (for cyclone, floods).
Section 3: Risk management
At TCS, the Corporate Risk Office, led by the Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for driving Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) across all 
functions in line with TCS Global Risk Management Policy. Refer the MD&A section on page numbers 78, for details on how ERM is driven 
across the company on all topics, including climate related risks and opportunities. The company also considers evolving concepts, trends, 
policies, customer requirements, regulations, and climate scenario analysis to identify Risk & Opportunities. The company also considers 
international guidelines/frameworks like GRI, SASB, and CDP for Risk & Opportunity drivers.
Risk Assessment Methodology: Refer the MD&A section page number 79 of the TCS Integrated Annual Report for information on 
Enterprise Risk Management process followed at TCS.

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
All climate-related risks are embedded into entity’s overall risk management process. TCS has an internal application where identified risks 
are baselined at the beginning of the year, tracked quarterly and updated with relevant progress. Each risk has an expiry date. Each risk 
owner responds with the progress and at the end of the financial year ensures closing of the risk.
Section 4: Metrics and targets
Climate related metrics
Climate-related metrics – Scope 1,2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent are disclosed on 
page number 152, 158 of the BRSR report. The emissions are in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standards. TCS has a robust environmental sustainability tool where all relevant environmental data are collected monthly, 
validated, and internally assured periodically across geographies. All locations within the operational control of TCS are included in 
the boundary of environmental data reporting (consolidated accounting group as per IFRS-S2). GHG emission factors are used from 
the latest version of IEA, DEFRA, USEPA, GHG Protocol All Sector Tools and regional sources for specific geographies (e.g. CEA for 
India) to estimate the GHG emissions. The approach, inputs and assumptions are detailed on Page number 152, 158 as part of the 
BRSR section. The carbon emission data is independently assured by external assurance providers at the end of the financial year. 
In FY 2024, scope 1 and 2 emissions have undergone reasonable assurance and scope 3 has been subject to limited assurance by 
KPMG. TCS reports its scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in the Integrated Annual Report and in CDP (Climate change) disclosures. 
Climate-related transition risks—Business activities vulnerable to climate-related transition risks; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
 Climate-related physical risks—Business activities vulnerable to climate-related physical risks; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
Climate-related opportunities—Business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities; - Refer section Sustainability Risks - 
Climate change and Environmental aspects (R & O), page number 86.
Capital deployment—the amount of capital expenditure, financing or investment deployed towards climate-related risks and 
opportunities; - Refer BRSR section in Principle 2 (Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific 
technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made 
by the entity, respectively, Page number 135)
Internal carbon prices:
 
The organization has calculated an internal carbon price based on the total investments envisaged for energy efficiency programs, 
transition to renewable energy and other investments towards emission reductions. Currently TCS does not apply this carbon price 
to determine the feasibility of projects or to apply a carbon tax to generate funding for the projects. All these projects and initiatives 
are driven through internal accruals since they align to overall company and Tata Group philosophy. Currently, TCS is not focusing on 
offsetting to drive reductions and the company may take up the carbon cost/tax mechanism in the future to generate budgets for 
purchase of offset instruments. In the coming years, the company may plan to consider applying a carbon tax to business travel (and 
employee commuting-company provided transport) to bring out the “carbon” cost. This will help reduce Category 6 and 7 of Scope 
3 emissions by either reducing travel or switching to carbon efficient means of travel and transportation (like EVs). The price for each 
metric tonne of greenhouse gas emissions the entity uses to assess the costs of its greenhouse gas emissions is ₹ 2,365.
 
Business decision-making processes this internal carbon price is applied to are:
 
Capital expenditure 
 
Operations procurement 
 
Risk management 
 
Opportunity management
 
Value chain engagement
Remuneration: Refer page number 103 for information on remuneration of the Board members. 
Climate-related targets
TCS’ climate related targets are mentioned along with its metrics, timeline, and performance in page 24, 25 of the Natural Capital section. 
In May 2021, TCS set carbon target of 70% reduction of absolute Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 (vs base year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030. 
This target setting is aimed to mitigate the carbon emissions from its activities and enables adapting to climate change risks. The target 
applies to the entity in entirety across geographies. TCS has already achieved 71% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions in FY 2023 (Vs 
2016) and 80% reduction in FY 2024 (Vs 2016) thereby overachieving the targets much ahead of its timelines. 
The performance against the targets is disclosed in this Integrated Annual Report in the Natural Capital Section on Page numbers 24 and 25. 
TCS has made its commitment to SBTi targets. In June 2022, TCS has responded to SBTi’s urgent call for corporate climate action by 
committing to align with 1.5°C and net-zero through the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. This is published on SBTi website and can 
be viewed at Companies taking action - Science Based Targets. TCS is working towards submitting the targets for validation by SBTi.

Requirement 7: Publish a GRI Content Index
* MD&A: Management Discussion and Analysis, CG: Corporate Governance Report, BRSR: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
GRI Content Index1

Statements, and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, is with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard. 
The Report also conforms to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and forms the basis of the company’s Communication 
on Progress (CoP) with the UNGC.
The following table provides the mapping of disclosures for FY 2024 against the GRI standard requirements. 
GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
Section *
Page No.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
The organization and its reporting practices
 
2-1 Organizational details
BRSR

2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
BRSR
128, 129
 
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
BRSR

2-4 Restatements of information
BRSR

2-5 External assurance
BRSR
128, 132
Activities and workers
 
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
BRSR

2-7 Employees
BRSR

2-8 Workers who are not employees
BRSR

Governance
 
2-9 Governance structure and composition
BRSR
93, 94

2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
93, 94
 
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body

2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of 
impacts
94, 95
 
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
BRSR

2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting
95, 147
 
2-15 Conflicts of interest

2-16 Communication of Critical Concerns
BRSR
130, 138, 
142, 147, 
148, 162, 

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
BRSR

2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body
Directors’ Report

2-19 Remuneration policies
BRSR

2-20 Process to determine remuneration
95, 100, 

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
BRSR

Strategy, policies and practices
 
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
Letter from the CEO
MD&A
BRSR

132, 146
 
2-23 Policy commitments
BRSR
131, 133, 
148, 165
 
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
BRSR
131, 148
 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures

GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
Section *
Page No.
 
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
BRSR
130, 138, 
142, 147, 
148, 162, 

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
BRSR
130, 138, 
142, 147, 
148, 162, 

2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
BRSR
133, 156
 
2-28 Membership associations
BRSR

Stakeholder engagement
 
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
BRSR
143, 144
 
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
BRSR

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
 
3-1 Process to determine material topics
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Identification of 
Material Topics

3-2 List of material topics
BRSR
TCS ESG Principles, Material 
Topics and Initiatives

316, 317
 
3-3 Management of material topics
MD&A
BRSR
TCS ESG Principles, Material 
Topics and Initiatives

130, 131, 
141, 142, 

316, 317
GRI 200: Economic Performance
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
Financial Capital
16, 17
 
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 
change
MD&A
BRSR

201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
BRSR

GRI 202: Market Presence
 
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 
wage
BRSR

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
 
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
BRSR

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
BRSR

205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
BRSR

GRI 207: Tax 2019
 
207-1 Approach to tax

207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management

207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax

GRI 300: Environmental Performance
GRI 302: Energy 2016
 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
BRSR
149, 150
 
302-3 Energy intensity
BRSR
149, 150
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
 
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
BRSR
151, 156
 
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
BRSR

303-3 Water withdrawal
BRSR
150, 156
 
303-4 Water discharge
BRSR

303-5 Water consumption
BRSR

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures

GRI Standard Disclosure and Description
Section *
Page No.
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
 
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
BRSR

304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity
BRSR

304-3 Habitats protected or restored
BRSR

GRI 305: Emissions 2016
 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
BRSR

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
BRSR

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
BRSR

305-4 GHG emissions intensity
BRSR
152, 158
 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
BRSR

GRI 306: Waste 2020
 
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
BRSR
135, 136, 

306-3 Waste generated
BRSR

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
BRSR

306-5 Waste directed to disposal
BRSR

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
BRSR
135, 160
 
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
BRSR

GRI 400: Social Dimension
GRI 401: Employment 2016
 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
Human Capital 
BRSR
18, 19

401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees
BRSR

401-3 Parental leave
BRSR

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
 
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
MD&A

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
 
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
BRSR

403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation
BRSR
140, 141
 
403-3 Occupational health services
BRSR

403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
BRSR

403-6 Promotion of worker health
BRSR

403-9 Work-related injuries
BRSR
141, 142
 
403-10 Work-related ill health
BRSR
141, 142
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
Human Capital
BRSR
19, 

404-3 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees
BRSR

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Human Capital 
BRSR
18, 19

405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
BRSR
146, 147
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
BRSR

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
 
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
Social Capital
BRSR

156, 162
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
 
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
BRSR

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
2nd Floor, Block T2 (B Wing), 
Lodha Excelus, Apollo Mills Compound, 
N. M. Joshi Marg, Mahalaxmi 
Mumbai - 400 011 India 
 
 
 
Telephone: +91 (22) 3989 6000 
Fax: +91 (22) 3090 2210 
Internet: www.kpmg.com/in 
 
1 | P a g e 
 
Independent Practitioners’ Limited Assurance Report 
To the Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited 
Assurance report on select sustainability disclosures in the Integrated Annual Report prepared in 
accordance with the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework and 
with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2021 (together called ‘Identified 
Sustainability Information’ (ISI)) of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (TCS) (the ‘Company’) for 
the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
 
Opinion 
We have performed an assurance engagement on the Identified Sustainability Information (ISI) as detailed 
in the table below: 
Identified 
Sustainability 
Information 
(ISI) subject to 
assurance 
Period 
subject 
assurance 
Page 
number 
the Annual 
Report 
Reporting criteria 
Select GRI and 
BRSR attributes 
(which are not 
part 
BRSR 
Core) 
(refer 
Annexure 1) 
 
 
From 1 April 
2023 to 31 
March 2024 
127 to 166 
and 
315 to 327 
GRI Standards 2021 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements 
(SEBI LODR) 
World Resource Institute (WRI) / World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (A 
Corporate 
Accounting 
and 
Reporting 
Standards) 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting 
& Reporting Standard 
Guidance note for BRSR format issued by SEBI 
 
This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners, engineers 
and environmental and social professionals. 
Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention to cause us 
to believe that the company’s Identified Sustainability Information on pages [127] to [166] and [315] to 
[327]of the Annual Report relating to select GRI and BRSR attributes (which are not part of BRSR Core) 
for the year ended 31 March 2024, subject to limited assurance is not prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the the World Resource Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (A Corporate Accounting and 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
2 | P a g e 
 
Reporting Standards), and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting & Reporting Standard , 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements (SEBI LODR) and with reference to the GRI Standards (2021) and basis of 
preparation set out in page 128 Section A: General Disclosures 13 of the Integrated Annual Report. 
We do not express an assurance opinion on information in respect of any other information included in the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024 or linked from the Sustainability Information or from the Integrated Annual 
Report 2023, including any images, audio files or embedded videos. 
Basis for opinion and conclusion 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information, and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the “Our responsibilities” section of our report. 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). 
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM) 1, Quality Management for Firms 
that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services 
Engagements, issued by the IAASB. This standard requires the firm to design, implement and operate a 
system of quality management, including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
conclusion. 
 
Other information 
Additionally, we have performed a reasonable assurance engagement on SEBI BRSR Core attributes and 
issued an independent assurance report on 08 May 2024. 
Our report thereon is included with the other information. 
Our limited assurance opinion on the ISI does not extend to other information that accompanies or contains 
the ‘ISI and our assurance report’ (hereafter referred to as “other information”). We have read the other 
information, but we have not performed any procedures with respect to the other information. 
 
Other matter 
Select BRSR and GRI attributes of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 were assured by the 
previous assurance practitioner who had expressed an unmodified opinion on 09 June 2023. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
3 | P a g e 
 
Intended use or purpose 
The ISI and our limited assurance report are intended for users who have reasonable knowledge of the 
BRSR attributes and GRI attributes, the reporting criteria and ISI and who have read the information in the 
ISI with reasonable diligence and understand that the ISI is prepared and assured at appropriate levels of 
materiality. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
Responsibilities for Identified Sustainability Information (ISI) 
The management of the company are responsible for: 
designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
selecting or developing suitable criteria for preparing the Identified Sustainability Information and 
appropriately referring to or describing the criteria; and 
preparing the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the reporting criteria. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the reporting process for the company’s ISI. 
 
Exclusions: 
 
Our assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we will not express a conclusion on the same: 
Operations of the Company other than those mentioned in the “Scope of Assurance”. 
Aspects of the BRSR and GRI attributes and the data/information (qualitative or quantitative) other than 
the ISI. 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future 
intentions provided by the Company. 
 
Inherent limitations 
The preparation of the company’s sustainability information requires the management to establish or 
interpret the criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be included, and make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported information. 
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR and GRI attributes, some of which are estimates, is subject to 
substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example GHG emissions, water footprint, energy 
footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion/conclusion does not reduce the 
uncertainty in the amounts and metrics. 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
4 | P a g e 
 
 
 
Our responsibilities 
We are responsible for: 
planning and performing the engagement to obtain a limited assurance about whether the ISI is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained; and 
reporting our conclusion to the Directors of TCS. 
 
Summary of the work we performed as the basis for our conclusion 
We exercised professional judgement and maintained professional skepticism throughout the engagement. 
We designed and performed our procedures to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for limited assurance conclusion. 
Limited assurance conclusion 
Our procedures selected depended on our understanding of the information subject to limited assurance and 
other engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material misstatements are likely to 
arise. In carrying out our engagement, we: 
assessed the suitability of the criteria used by the company in preparing the information subject to 
limited assurance; 
interviewed senior management and relevant staff at corporate and selected locations concerning 
policies for occupational health and safety, and the implementation of these across the business; 
through inquiries, obtained an understanding of TCS’s control environment, processes and information 
systems relevant to the preparation of the information subject to limited assurance, but did not evaluate 
the design of particular control activities, obtain evidence about their implementation or test their 
operating effectiveness; 
made inquiries of relevant staff at corporate and selected locations responsible for the preparation of 
the information subject to limited assurance; 
undertook ten site visits out of which seven were physical site visits and three were virtual site visits; 
we selected these sites based on the relative size of the workforce of these locations to the total 
workforce, unexpected fluctuations in the information subject to limited assurance since the prior 
period, and sites not visited in the prior period; 
inspected, at each site visited, a limited number of items to or from supporting records, as appropriate; 
applied analytical procedures, as appropriate; 
recalculated the information subject to limited assurance based on the criteria; and 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
5 | P a g e 
 
evaluated the overall presentation of the information subject to limited assurance to determine whether 
it is consistent with the criteria and in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the 
company’s occupational health and safety. 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less 
in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had 
a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. 
 
 
 
 
 
Shivananda Shetty 
Partner 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
Date:08 May 2024 
Place: Mumbai 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
6 | P a g e 
 
Appendix – 1 
Select BRSR and GRI attributes 
GRI Indicator 
BRSR Linkage 
Type of 
Assurance 
302-1-(a), (b), (c)-i, (e) 
Energy consumption within the 
organization 
P6 E1- Details of total energy consumption (in Joules 
or multiples) 
Limited 
302-3 (a) Energy intensity 
P6 E1- Details of total energy intensity 
Limited 
303-3-(a)-I, 303-3-(a)-ii, 303-3-
(a)-iii, 303-3-(a)-iv 
P6 E3- Provide details of water withdrawal by source Limited 
303-1-(a), 303-2-(a), 303-4 
P6 E4- Provide details of water discharged 
Limited 
303-5 (a) 
P6 E3- Provide details of water consumption 
Limited 
305-1 (a), (b), (c), (d), €Direct 
(Scope 1) GHG emissions 
P6 E7- Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions 
(Scope 1) 
Limited 
305-2 (a), (b), (c), Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG emissions 
P6 E7- Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions 
(Scope 2) 
Limited 
305-4 (a), (b), GHG emissions 
intensity 
P6 E7 - Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) intensity 
Limited 
306-3-(a) Waste generated 
P6 E9- Provide details related to waste generated by 
category of waste 
Limited 
306-4-(a), (b-i), (b-ii), (b-iii), (c-i), 
(c-ii), (c-iii) Waste diverted from 
disposal 
P6 E9 - Provide details related to waste recovered 
through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations 
Limited 
306-5-(a), (b-i), (b-ii), (b-iii), (c-i), 
(c-ii), (c-iii), (c-iv) Waste directed 
to disposal 
P6 E9- Provide details related to waste disposed by 
nature of disposal method 
Limited 
403-9-(a-i-v), 
403-9-(b-i-v), 
Work-related injuries 
P3 E11-Details of safety related incidents including 
lost time injury frequency rate, recordable workrelated injuries, no. of fatalities 
Limited 
303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resource 
No direct Linkage 
Limited 
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impacts 
No direct Linkage 
Limited 
 303-3-b-(i-iv), 303-4-a-(i-ii) 
Water withdrawal 
P6 L1- Water withdrawal, consumption, and 
discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters) 
Limited 
303-1-(a), 303-2-(a), 303-4 
303-3-b-(i-iv), 303-4-a-(i-iv) 
Water discharge 
P6 L1- Water withdrawal, consumption, and 
discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters) 
Limited 
303-5 (a) 
303-3-b-(i-iv), 303-4-a-(i-ii) 
Consumption 
P6 L1- Water withdrawal, consumption, and 
discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters) 
Limited 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
7 | P a g e 
 
304, 413-1-(a-ii), 303-1- (a), 3031- (c) 
Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity 
value 
outside 
protected areas 
P6 E11- If the entity has operations/offices in/around 
ecologically sensitive areas where environmental 
approvals /clearances are required, please specify the 
location and type of operations and if the conditions 
of environmental approval / clearance are being 
complied with? 
Limited 
304-2, 304-2-a-(i-vi), 304-2-b-(iiv), 304-3-(a) 
Significant impacts of activities, 
products 
and 
services 
biodiversity 
P6 L3- With respect to the ecologically sensitive 
areas, provide details of significant direct & indirect 
impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas 
along-with prevention and remediation activities. 
Limited 
305-3, 305-3- (a, b) 
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions 
P6 L2 – Provide details of total Scope 3 emissions 
Limited 
305-4- (a), (b, (c), (d) 
 GHG emissions intensity 
P6 L2 – Provide details of total Scope 3 emissions 
intensity 
Limited 
305-5-(a), (b), (c), (d) 
Reduction of GHG emission 
P6 E8 – Projects related to reduction of Green House 
Gas emissions 
Limited 
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts 
No direct Linkage 
Limited 
 
 
GRI Indicator 
BRSR Linkage 
Type of 
Assurance 
308-1, 308-1 (a) 
New suppliers that were screened 
using environmental criteria 
P6 L7- Percentage of value chain partners (by value 
of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed for environmental impacts 
 
Limited 
 
401-1 (b) 
New employee hires and employee 
turnover 
Section A 22- Turnover rate for permanent employees 
and workers 
Limited 
401-2, 201-3-b-(i-iii), 201-3-c, 
201-3-d, 201-3-e 
Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees 
P3 E1- Details of retirement benefits, for Current 
Financial Year 
Limited 
401-3 Parental leave 
P3 E5-Return to work and Retention rates of 
permanent employees that took parental leave 
Limited 
403-1 (a), (b) 
P3 E10-Health and safety management system 
Limited 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
8 | P a g e 
 
Occupational health and safety 
management system 
403-2 (a), (b), (c), 403-4 (a), 403-6 
(a) 
Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident 
investigation 
403-5 (a), 404-1 (a-i), 404-2 (a) 
Worker training on occupational 
health and safety 
P3 E8-Details of training given to employees and 
workers 
Limited 
403-6, 3-3-(d-i-iii), 403-2-(a-i-ii), 
403-9-(c-iii), 403-9-(d), 403-10-(ciii) 
Promotion of worker health 
P3 E12-Describe the measures taken by the entity to 
ensure a safe and healthy workplace 
Limited 
404-1, 403-5-(a), 404-1-(a-i), 4042-(a), 2-24-(a-iv), 205-2-(e), 4035-(a), 404-1-(a-i-ii), 410-1-a 
Average hours of training per year 
per employee 
P3 E8-Details of training given to employees and 
workers 
P5 E1-Employees and workers who have been 
provided training on human rights issues and 
policy(ies) of the entity 
Limited 
404-3 (a) 
Details of performance and career 
development reviews of 
employees 
P3 E9-Details of performance and career development 
reviews of employees 
Limited 
405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees 
Section A 21- Participation/Inclusion/Representation 
of women 
Limited 
405-2, 2-19-(a-i-v), 2-21-(a) 
Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to men 
P5 E3-Details of remuneration/salary/wages 
Limited 
2-25-(e), 406-1-(a) 
Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken 
P5 E8- Number of Complaints made by employees on 
sexual harassment, discrimination at the workplace, 
child and forced labour, wages and other human rights 
related issues 
Limited 
304-1-(a-i-v), 413-1-(a-i-iii), 2031, 3-3, 2-25-(b), 413-1-(a-viii), 
2-12-(b), 2-13- (a, b), 2-29-(a), 229-(a-i-iii), 3-3-(d-i-ii), 413-1-(aiv), 203-1 
Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs 
P6 E11- If the entity has operations/offices in/around 
ecologically sensitive areas where environmental 
approvals /clearances are required, please specify the 
location and type of operations and if the conditions 
of environmental approval / clearance are being 
complied 
with? 
P8 E1- Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of 
projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, 
the 
current 
financial 
year 
P8 E3-Describe the mechanisms to receive and 
redress 
grievances 
the 
community 
P8 L1-Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any 
negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments 
P4 L1-Provide the processes for consultation between 
Limited 

Integrated Annual Report 2023-24

Sustainability Disclosures
 
 
 
9 | P a g e 
 
stakeholders 
and 
the 
Board 
economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is 
delegated, how is feedback from such consultations 
provided 
the 
Board. 
P4 L3-Provide details of instances of engagement 
with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups. 
414-2 (a) 
Negative social impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken 
P3 L5- Details on assessment of value chain partners. Limited 
2-7-(a), 2-7-(b-i & ii), 405-1-(b-iii) 
Employees 
General Disclosures 20 a- Employees and workers 
(including differently abled): 
Limited 
2-8 (a) Workers who are not 
employees 
General Disclosures 20 a- Employees and workers 
(including differently abled): 
Limited 
2-21 Annual total compensation 
ratio 
No direct Linkage 
Limited 
3-2 List of material topics 
No direct Linkage 
Limited 
 
 
 
 
 

Stakeholder Engagement
Customer
Asia Paciﬁc
Customer Summit
Employee
Employee Townhall
Industry Bodies
CEO speaking at
Nasscom Technology 
and Leadership
Forum '2024
Local
Community
Vendor
Partners
AWS rings the 
closing bell at 
Nasdaq with TCS 
Government
Texas Governor 
visit to Executive 
Briefing Centre, 
Mumbai, India
goIT
TCS joining global 
leaders at WEF in 
Davos, Switzerland
BridgeIT
Local
Community
International 
organizations, 
Forum Partners, 
Media
(Photo credit:
Nasdaq, Inc. / Vanja Savic)

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
www.tcs.com
IT Services
Business Solutions
Consulting
TCS Safe Harbor Clause
Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations. These risks and uncertainties 
include, but are not limited to, our ability to manage growth, intense competition among global 
IT services companies, various factors which may affect our profitability, such as wage increases 
or an appreciating Rupee, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and 
cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on 
cross-border movement of skilled personnel, our ability to manage our international operations, 
reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication 
networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for 
damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which TCS has made strategic 
investments, withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions 
on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual 
property, cyber attacks or security breaches, pandemics, natural disasters and general economic 
conditions affecting our industry. TCS may, from time to time, make additional written and oral 
forward-looking statements, including our reports to shareholders. These forward-looking 
statements represent only the Company’s current intentions, beliefs or expectations, and any 
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it was made. The Company 
assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.