Annual Review 
 
Notice of Annual Meeting 
Proxy Statement 
Form 10-K

“The sum of all that 
NVIDIA’s doing 
will indeed create 
the next industrial 
revolution”
CNBC
Accelerated computing is sustainable 
computing. Every data center in the world 
needs to be accelerated to reclaim power, 
achieve sustainability, and realize net-zero 
emissions. Accelerated data centers could save 
an incredible 19 terawatt-hours of electricity 
annually if run on GPU and DPU accelerators vs 
CPUs. That’s about the same energy as a year’s 
worth of trips by 2.9 million passenger cars. 
The efficiency of accelerated computing 
paved the way for generative AI. The most 
critical computing platform of our generation, 
generative AI will reshape the world’s largest 
industries and create an entirely new one.
NVIDIA, the pioneer of accelerated computing, 
is the driving force of this new era.

HGX B100
NVLINK Switch
GB200 Superchip
Compute Node

“They basically have 
a comprehensive 
solution from the chip 
all the way to data 
centers at this point”
CIO
Accelerated computing starts with the most 
advanced processors and ends with AI factories. 
From chip architecture to advanced networking 
to acceleration libraries, NVIDIA builds the entire 
computing system at data-center scale. Then, we 
disaggregate everything and reintegrate it into 
the world’s computing fabric so that industries 
can leverage the parts and systems they need.
In the future, almost all of our experiences 
will be generative. Blackwell—the world’s 
most powerful AI platform—is tailor-made 
for the generative AI revolution.
Quantum X800 Switch
ConnectX-8 SuperNIC
Spectrum X800 Switch
BlueField-3 SuperNIC

“Continually 
optimized software 
remains NVIDIA’s 
ace in the hole”
Forbes
Accelerated computing requires full-stack 
software. NVIDIA’s acceleration stacks optimize 
workloads on a massive scale, integrating 
thousands of nodes while treating network 
and storage as integral components.
This year, we rolled out TensorRT-LLM and NVIDIA 
Inference Microservices™ (NIM). TensorRT-LLM 
is an open-source software library that enables 
customers to more than double the inference 
performance of their GPUs. NIM are a new way 
to package and deliver AI software. This curated 
selection of microservices adds a new layer 
to NVIDIA’s full-stack computing platform—
connecting the AI ecosystem of model developers, 
platform providers, and enterprises with a 
standardized path to run custom AI models.
Industry Standard APIs
Text, Speech, Image,
Video, 3D, Biology
Triton Inference Server
cuDF, CV-CUDA, DALI, NCCL,
Post Processing Decoder
Cloud Native Stack
GPU Operator, Network Operator
Enterprise Management
GPU Health Check, Identity, Metrics,
Monitoring, Secrets Management
Kubernetes

TensorRT LLM and Triton
cuBLAS , cuDNN, In-Flight Batching,
Memory Optimization, FP8 Quantization
Optimized Model
Single GPU, Multi-GPU, Multi-Node
Customization Cache
P-Tuning, LORA, Model Weights
NVIDIA CUDA
100’s of Millions of CUDA GPUs Installed Base

DATA 
PROCESSING
DSL
CAD,
CAE, SDA
DSL
PERFORMANCE, ECOSYSTEM, REACH
DEMAND
APPS
GENOMICS, 
DRUG 
DISCOVERY
DSL
CUDA-X LIBRARIES
ONE ARCHITECTURE-CUDA
SUPERCOMPUTING SYSTEMS AND SOFTWARE
GPU
SWITCH
NIC/DPU
CPU
WEATHER
SIMULATION
DSL
6G,
QUANTUM
DSL
AV,
ROBOTICS,
INDUSTRIAL
DIGITAL 
TWINS
DSL
GENERATIVE 
DSL
DATACENTERS
HGX
MGX
CLOUD
DGX CLOUD
OV CLOUD
EDGE
AGX
IGX

INSTALLED BASE
“NVIDIA’s got great 
chips, and more 
importantly, they 
have an incredible 
ecosystem”
The New York Times
NVIDIA’s accelerated computing ecosystem 
is bringing AI to every enterprise. The NVIDIA 
ecosystem spans nearly 5 million developers 
and 40,000 companies. More than 1,600 
generative AI companies are building on 
NVIDIA. CUDA®, our parallel computing model 
launched in 2006, offers developers more 
than 300 libraries, 600 AI models, numerous 
SDKs, and 3,500 GPU-accelerated applications. 
CUDA has more than 48 million downloads.

“NVIDIA’s prescription 
for the future: 
transforming 
healthcare with AI”
Forbes
NVIDIA AI is powering the next era of drug 
discovery and advances in life sciences. NVIDIA 
Clara™, our suite of computing platforms, 
software, and services for healthcare and life 
sciences, and NVIDIA BioNeMo™, our platform 
for state-of-the-art generative AI models for drug 
discovery, are turbocharging breakthroughs.
Genentech is tapping NVIDIA to use generative 
AI to discover and develop new therapeutics and 
deliver treatments to patients more efficiently. 
Recursion Pharmaceuticals is the first NVIDIA 
partner to offer an AI model through BioNeMo 
cloud APIs. And Amgen is building AI models trained 
to analyze one of the world’s most extensive 
human datasets on an NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD™.

“NVIDIA has virtually 
recreated the entire 
planet—and now it 
wants to use its digital 
twin to crack weather 
forecasting for good”
TechRadar
NVIDIA AI is tackling climate change. Extreme 
events attributable to climate change cost 
more than $143 billion a year. NVIDIA’s CorrDiff 
is a revolutionary new generative AI model 
trained on high-resolution radar, weather 
forecasts, and other data. Using CorrDiff, 
extreme weather events can be super-resolved 
from 25-kilometer to two-kilometer resolution 
with 1,000 times the speed and 3,000 times 
the energy efficiency of conventional weather 
models. This AI-powered weather forecasting 
allows us to more accurately predict and track 
severe storms to try and reduce those impacts.

“NVIDIA is a core 
technology leader 
in the autonomous 
driving arena”
CleanTechnica
NVIDIA AI is revolutionizing transportation. 
NVIDIA has developed an end-to-end platform 
from cloud to car to allow the automotive 
ecosystem to develop industry-leading AIdefined vehicles. We recently announced DRIVE 
AGX Thor™—designed and optimized for gen 
AI utilizing NVIDIA’s Blackwell architecture—
to reimagine the driving experience. 
And this year, every next-generation 
Mercedes-Benz vehicle will include an NVIDIA 
software-defined computing architecture that 
includes the most powerful computer, system 
software, and applications for consumers.

“The age of 
humanoid robots 
could be a significant 
step closer thanks to 
a new release from 
NVIDIA” 
TechRadar
NVIDIA is fueling the next wave of AI—robotics and 
industrial digitalization. And that new wave of robots 
that will learn in NVIDIA Omniverse. Simulators like 
Isaac Sim running on Omniverse will be gyms where 
robots learn their skills. Over 1.2 million developers 
and 10,000 customers and partners are leveraging 
the NVIDIA Isaac and Jetson platforms to create 
and deploy AI-driven robots. And Project GR00T, a 
general-purpose foundation model for humanoid 
robots, will help them understand natural language 
and emulate movements by observing human actions.

“NVIDIA Omniverse 
Cloud APIs will 
elevate digital 
twins for a new 
industrial revolution”
Venture Beat
The soul of NVIDIA is where computer graphics, 
physics, and AI intersect in Omniverse—a 
virtual world simulation engine. Heavy industry 
is one of the final frontiers of IT. Omniverse is 
the fundamental operating system for building 
digital twins that are crucial to unlocking new 
potential in heavy industries worldwide.
Omniverse connects the tools created by 
developers in the NVIDIA ecosystem. It enables 
each team to operate on the same ground 
truth, creating efficiencies and innovation. And 
now, with NVIDIA Omniverse Cloud™ APIs, 
developers can simplify and speed up the 
development of digital twins for almost any 
industrial application, seamlessly integrating 
Omniverse into their existing apps.

“Generative AI is the defining technology of 
our time. Blackwell is the engine to power this 
new industrial revolution. Working with the 
most dynamic companies in the world, we will 
realize the promise of AI for every industry.”

The dawn of a new computing 
era is unmistakably upon us.
Two transitions are occurring 
simultaneously—accelerated computing 
and generative AI—transforming 
the computer industry and every 
other industry worldwide.
CPU scaling, the engine that has 
driven the computer industry over 
the past three decades, has slowed. 
Software developers have turned 
to accelerated computing to keep 
pace with the exponentially growing 
demand for computing in a cost- and 
energy-sustainable way. The computing 
model pioneered by NVIDIA has 
reached critical mass and has been 
adopted broadly as the path forward.
Accelerated computing will modernize 
the world’s trillion-dollar data 
center infrastructure. Its increased 
throughput and cost and energy 
savings are remarkable. Two NVIDIA 
HGX computers with Hopper GPUs 
that together cost $500K can replace 
1,000 nodes of CPU servers that cost 
$10M for AI, scientific computing, 
or data processing workloads.
For data centers that are budget- or 
power-limited, NVIDIA delivers an orderof-magnitude increase in throughput. 
For data centers optimized for 
throughput, NVIDIA delivers an order-ofmagnitude reduction in cost and power. 
Accelerated computing is the best way 
to build sustainable data centers.
When the cost of a fundamental 
resource, like computing, improves by 
orders of magnitude, new methods 
are invented, and new utilities are 
discovered. AI researchers tapped 
NVIDIA CUDA to realize deep learning, 
a machine learning algorithm that is 
incredibly compute-intensive. Deep 
learning processes mountains of data 
to find patterns and relationships 
and learn predictive features. In 
2012, AlexNet shocked the artificial 
intelligence community by winning, by 
a considerable margin, the ImageNet 
computer vision contest. Within a 
couple of years, every computer vision 
algorithm used deep learning, and 
within five years, computer vision had 
achieved superhuman object recognition 
capabilities. AlexNet on NVIDIA CUDA 
was the big bang of modern AI.
We recognized that AlexNet was more 
than a computer vision breakthrough. 
We imagined deep learning would 
fundamentally revolutionize software 
and, consequently, all computing. Deep 
learning can scale to tackle many 
previously impossible challenges with 
new network architecture innovations, 
more data, and more compute.
In the ensuing decade, NVIDIA 
set out to advance AI. We 
pursued several strategies:
Reinvent every layer of computing, 
from GPU architecture, e.g., Tensor 
Cores, to system interconnect, 
e.g., NVLink, systems, e.g., DGX, 
software, e.g., cuDNN and TensorRT, 
to networking technologies, e.g., 
SHARP in-networking processing, 
and much more. We reinvented 
computing from the ground up.
Transform into a data-center-scale 
company by combining with Mellanox, 
the world’s leading high-performance 
networking company. As computing 
large models and training data 
scales to require millions of trillions 
more operations, we need not just 
amazing chips but AI supercomputing 
systems. Today, NVIDIA is an expert at 
every computing layer, from chips to 
software, and across the data center 
—compute to networking. We have the 
expertise and scale to help customers 
build AI infrastructures anywhere.
Become an AI expert by building NVIDIA 
AI Research and application-specific 
AI platforms—full-stack AI platforms 
for DLSS RTX neural graphics, DRIVE 
AV self-driving cars, Isaac robotics, 
ACE digital humans, NeMo LLMs, 
BioNeMo digital biology, and Clara 
medical imaging—so that we can apply 
AI firsthand to create new markets. 
Automotive has joined gaming as a 
multi-billion-dollar run rate business. 
Healthcare and robotics are additional 
multi-billion-dollar opportunities. 
Dear NVIDIANs 
and Stakeholders, 

Build a new ecosystem for the AI era 
by creating tools, libraries, and expert 
technical teams to support developers 
going after the AI revolution. The global 
NVIDIA ecosystem now approaches 5 
million developers—capping a recordsetting year for new developers. 
Forty thousand companies have 
worked with NVIDIA. There are now 
more than 3,300 GPU-accelerated 
applications. More than 18,000 
startups are building on NVIDIA. 
These four strategies—reinventing 
the full computing stack, 
building data-center-scale AI 
supercomputers, conducting basic 
AI research and applying AI to 
create new markets, and building 
a global ecosystem—transformed 
NVIDIA and all of computing. 
Twelve years after AlexNet, NVIDIA 
is a full-stack, data-center-scale AI 
company that partners with nearly 
every AI company in every industry 
worldwide. Then ChatGPT arrived, 
and the pace of AI accelerated even 
faster. The era of generative AI began. 
Computers can now generate 
information based on human prompts. 
At the heart of ChatGPT, large 
language models, or LLMs, learned 
to understand human language, prior 
knowledge, and even some common 
sense from massive amounts of text. 
And not only human language. LLMs 
have learned to understand text, speech, 
images, and even amino acids and 
proteins, the language of biology. With 
multi-modal learning—for example, 
simultaneously learning from language 
and images—generative AI is gaining a 
deeper understanding of the world and 
can translate across different modalities. 
Given a prompt such as “golden 
retriever wearing sunglasses and a 
white golden doodle with black leather 
jacket surfing a wave, on a surfboard 
with NVIDIA logo, in Maui during 
sunset, with hotels on the beach,” 
generative AI can create an image.
From an amino acid sequence, AI can 
generate the structure of a protein, 
e.g., the SARS-CoV-2 main protease. 
The combinations and possibilities 
are endless.
Generative AI is the most transformative 
and consequential technology of 
our generation. Computers will 
understand people and the world 
and perform tasks that previously 
required human intelligence. With 
generative AI, computers can augment 
and amplify humans to perform tasks 
with greater ease and speed, help 
us be more productive, and solve 
problems previously unimaginable. 
Researchers use generative AI to 
compose billions of chemical compounds 
and virtually test them as drugs against 
a disease target. Climate scientists 
are using generative AI to map tens of 
thousands of potential trajectories of a 
weather pattern in seconds to predict 
the path of a deadly storm better. 
The automation of intelligence with 
generative AI will transform every 
company in the world’s $100 trillion 
worth of industries. Startups and 
established companies spanning every 
conceivable domain and industry 
are investing billions of dollars to 
advance and apply generative AI.
With AI supercomputers, we are 
manufacturing intelligence in the form 
of tokens or floating-point numbers. 
In the last industrial revolution, power 
generation plants produced electricity. 
In this new industrial revolution, 
NVIDIA AI supercomputers are the AI 
factories that produce intelligence. 
Generative AI has enabled us to 
produce something completely new.
Companies will operate a new type 
of facility, owned or rented, that 
produces AI to augment, accelerate, 
and amplify the productivity of their 
employees and business processes.
Nations have awakened to AI’s impact. 
Countries are building sovereign AI 
infrastructures. Governments see AI 
factories as essential infrastructure 
to advance their society and local 
industries. Nations such as Canada, 
France, India, Singapore, Japan, 
and others seek to develop their 
sovereign AI capabilities as they have 
recognized their country’s data is 
their most valuable natural resource.

Generative AI is the most impactful 
invention of our time, and as with 
electricity and the internet, it impacts 
everyone and every industry. The 
potential of AI to help tackle the world’s 
most pressing challenges is incredible. 
To maximize this potential, companies, 
governments, and societies are raising 
awareness of the capabilities of this 
technology, inventing capabilities to 
align, guardrail, secure, and control 
models, sharing best practices, 
creating new policies, discovering new 
social norms, encouraging debate, 
and inspiring whole new areas of 
research in AI security and safety.
NVIDIA Accelerated 
Computing Reaches 
the Tipping Point 
For fiscal 2024, revenue was up 
126% to a record $60.9 billion. GAAP 
earnings per diluted share was $11.93, 
up 586% from a year ago. Non-GAAP 
earnings per diluted share were 
$12.96, up 288% from a year ago. 
Non-GAAP gross margin was 73.8%.
Full-year Data Center revenue rose 217% 
to a record $47.5 billion. Demand for 
Hopper architecture products remains 
strong, and we have announced the 
Blackwell architecture, its successor.
Full-year Gaming revenue rose 15% to 
$10.4 billion on strong demand for 
our expanded GeForce RTX 40 Series 
GPU lineup. 
Full-year revenue for Professional 
Visualization rose 1% to $1.6 billion.
Automotive full-year revenue this year 
rose 21% to $1.1 billion. 
A trillion dollars’ worth of existing data 
centers needs to be accelerated, and a 
trillion more dollars is needed to expand 
the installed base with AI factories 
in the next five years. We are in the 
middle of one of the most significant 
expansions in computing history. NVIDIA 
is well-positioned to help our customers 
and partners realize this opportunity.
We hosted GTC live and in person for 
the first time in five years. It was an 
electric experience. Over 1,100 sessions, 
more than 300 exhibits, and 20-plus 
technical workshops packed the San 
Jose Convention Center to capacity, 
providing learning and networking 
opportunities for our community and 
ecosystem unavailable anywhere else.
Just 15 years ago, GTC easily fit inside 
a hotel ballroom. Now, it is a can’tmiss event with more than 19,000 
in-person registrations, almost 
300,000 virtual registrations, and 
more than 12,000 people at the 
SAP Center for our keynote, which 
kicked off an unbelievable week. 
Our industry partners’ unprecedented 
collaboration and participation made 
this year’s GTC exceptional. The 
presence of industry giants like 
Amazon, Cisco, Dell, Google, HPE, 
IBM, Lenovo, Microsoft, Oracle, and 
Supermicro at GTC underscored the 
universal recognition of this moment in 
technology and their commitment to 
shaping the future alongside NVIDIA. 
So, what now? How are we raising the bar?
A New Computing 
Platform for the New 
Industrial Revolution
We are accelerating our roadmap 
across the board. Generative AI models 
are increasing exponentially in scale, 
doubling about every six months. If 
it takes twice as much data to train 
models twice as large, compute intensity 
is growing at 4X every six months. 
Further, the demand for inferencing, 
or generating AI, on NVIDIA has 
increased tremendously. When you 
interact with a chatbot, which every 
application or service will integrate in 
the future, you are likely interacting 
directly with an NVIDIA GPU in the 
cloud. In the future, our interactions 
with computers will be generated by AI 
specifically for that interaction rather 
than retrieved prerecorded text or 
content. Generative AI will let us reinvent 
how we interact with computers, and 
demand for GPUs will be massive. 
Multi-modality, large context windows, 
retrieval-augmented generation, 
mixture-of-experts, synthetic data 
generation, content protection, 
reasoning, planning, tool use, physical 
world understanding, trillion-parameter 

LLMs, distillation to small models, high 
throughput to high interactivity—the 
innovation rate of training and inference 
is incredibly high. Advances are 
coming from every computer science 
department and every industry. NVIDIA 
CUDA’s rich software ecosystem and 
ubiquity attracts more developers, 
which creates more advances 
that drive more adoption. NVIDIA’s 
ecosystem flywheel is in full throttle.
Our customers and partners want 
more and faster. A much bigger GPU 
is needed, so we built Blackwell. The 
most advanced GPU-accelerated 
computing system ever built, the work 
of thousands of engineers and over two 
decades of learning and craftsmanship, 
the Blackwell platform is the computer 
for the generative AI era and the new 
industrial revolution. Blackwell adoption 
is already underway by every major 
cloud service provider, server maker, 
and leading AI company, including 
Amazon, Google, Meta, Microsoft, 
OpenAI, Tesla, and xAI, with Blackwellbased products expected to be rolled 
out by our partners later this year.
The numbers are incredible—208 
billion transistors on the B200 Tensor 
Core GPU, 600,000 parts, 3,000 
pounds, two miles of NVLink cables, 
30X faster inference, 4X speedier 
training, and about 25X less cost of 
ownership and energy consumption 
than Hopper, and more than double 
the bandwidth and memory of H100. 
Blackwell has six breakthrough 
technologies enabling AI training and 
real-time LLM inference for models 
scaling up to 10 trillion parameters. 
The second-generation transformer 
engine enables Blackwell to support 
double the compute and model sizes. 
Fifth-generation NVLink delivers 
groundbreaking 1.8TB/s bidirectional 
throughput per GPU for seamless highspeed communication among up to 576 
GPUs for handling trillion-parameter 
LLMs. A built-in reliability, availability, 
and serviceability (RAS) engine uses 
AI-based preventative maintenance 
to run diagnostics and forecast 
reliability issues, increasing uptime and 
resiliency and reducing operational 
costs. Advanced confidential computing 
capabilities, including new native 
interface encryption protocols, provide 
unprecedented levels of security without 
compromising performance. Finally, 
a dedicated decompression engine 
delivers a leap for data processing. 
Data processing is a top workload in 
the world’s data centers. Data is the 
raw material of AI, and the amount of 
data generated is growing exponentially. 
Pre- and post-processing data for AI 
can often consume half of the total 
workload. NVIDIA is singular in our 
ability to accelerate data processing. 
NVIDIA Blackwell and NVIDIA’s 
RAPIDS acceleration libraries will let 
us achieve an order-of-magnitude 
reduction in time, cost, and energy. 
That’s a mind-boggling amount 
of performance. Still, we needed 
something even more significant for 
this generative industrial revolution. 
So, we scaled it even further. The 
GB200 NVL72 combines 36 Grace 
Blackwell GB200 Superchips to act as 
a single GPU in a multi-node, liquidcooled, rack-scale system. Each GB200 
connects two NVIDIA B200 Tensor 
Core GPUs to an NVIDIA Grace CPU. 
Blackwell is a whole computing platform 
that customers can configure into 
various AI infrastructures. The Blackwell 
platform includes the new Quantum 
InfiniBand and Spectrum Ethernet 
switches, the X800 series, designed 
for trillion-parameter-scale AI. 
If NVIDIA GPUs are like the neurons, 
then NVIDIA networks are like the 
synapses. Both are vital to performance. 
The new Spectrum X800 is the first 
high-performance networking platform 
to overcome Ethernet’s fundamental 
shortcomings for distributed 
supercomputing like AI. While Quantum 
X800 is best for dedicated AI factories, 
Spectrum X800 brings many of 
NVIDIA’s networking technologies 
for AI to the large Ethernet market.
Training a 1.8 trillion-parameter GPT 
model took about three to five months 
with 25,000 NVIDIA Ampere architecture 
GPUs. With Hopper, it would take about 
8,000 GPUs and consume 15 megawatts 
over about three months. For Blackwell, 
in the same 90 days, it would need 
a quarter of the GPUs and a quarter 
of the power of prior models for the 
same task—only about 4 megawatts.
NVIDIA AI for Every 
Industry and Enterprise
Generative AI will transform every 
industry. NVIDIA has already applied 
AI to build several multi-billiondollar verticals—gaming, healthcare, 
automotive, and robotics. We are 
now bringing NVIDIA’s accelerated 
computing and AI to the enterprise. 
Enterprises have not historically been a 
market for GPUs and high-performance 
computing. Generative AI changes that. 
Copilots, assistants, and agents will 
augment and amplify every employee 
and business process in the future, 
and enterprises will be significant 
markets for NVIDIA GPU computing.

The NVIDIA AI Enterprise software 
platform centers on the idea that 
many companies will want to build and 
operate proprietary AI models, and 
every company will want to integrate 
AI into its business processes to 
accelerate and improve productivity. 
NVIDIA AI Enterprise strategy has 
several pillars: NVIDIA’s expertise 
in building AI models, the NVIDIA 
NeMo suite of tools to develop and 
customize LLMs, NVIDIA DGX Cloud, 
which is our AI factory, and NVIDIA 
NIM inference microservices, which 
are AI containers that run everywhere 
there are NVIDIA GPUs. We are an AI 
foundry like TSMC is a chip foundry. 
We manufacture custom NIMs like 
TSMC manufactures custom chips. 
And like a great foundry, we have the 
technology, skills, scale, and business 
model to partner with any company.
NIM is a groundbreaking new way to 
package and deliver AI software. We 
integrated a mountain of complex 
software technology to build NIMs 
so developers and enterprises can 
quickly develop AI applications. These 
pretrained models are optimized and 
cloud-native, shortening the time to 
market and simplifying the deployment 
of generative AI models anywhere. 
NIMs can learn to understand 
proprietary information specific to 
a company so businesses can create 
and deploy custom applications 
on their platforms while retaining 
full ownership and control of their 
intellectual property. NIMs are built 
for portability and control, enabling 
model deployment across various 
infrastructures, from local workstations 
to cloud to on-premises data centers.
Adobe, Box, Cadence, Cloudera, Cohesity, 
CrowdStrike, Dropbox, Getty Images, 
NetApp, SAP, ServiceNow, Shutterstock, 
and Snowflake are among the first to 
access NVIDIA NIMs. ServiceNow, for 
example, uses NIMs to develop and 
deploy new domain-specific copilots for 
customer care and service assurance.
Supercharging Health 
Sciences and Drug Discovery
Generative AI has supercharged 
innovation in healthcare. At GTC, we 
introduced more than two dozen 
healthcare NIMs for drug discovery, 
medical technology, and digital 
health. AWS and Microsoft Azure 
are incorporating NVIDIA NIMs 
in their healthcare platforms.
Our partnerships in the medical 
technology and biopharmaceuticals 
segments are already making huge 
impacts. Generative AI for computeraided drug discovery is seeing 
broad adoption. Genentech uses 
NVIDIA BioNeMo to customize NIMs 
integrated into its drug discovery 
workflows. Amgen is taking drug 
discovery to light speed, building AI 
models trained on one of the world’s 
most extensive human datasets. 
Johnson & Johnson MedTech is 
partnering with NVIDIA to build its 
digital ecosystem for intelligent 
surgical and medical instruments on 
NVIDIA IGX and Holoscan platforms.
The rate of innovation in healthcare 
is thrilling. Hundreds of tech startups 
are partnering with NVIDIA and using 
generative AI to revolutionize health 
monitoring, drug discovery, robotic 
surgery, and patient care. Generative AI 
will transform healthcare into one of the 
world’s largest technology industries.
Expanded Graphics and 
Gaming Leadership
Computer graphics remains core to 
NVIDIA. Accelerated computing has 
powered unimaginable advances and 
delivered tremendous performance 
gains of 10 million-X in the last two 
decades. We pioneered RTX DLSS neural 
graphics, the fusion of AI and raytracing computer graphics to enhance 
performance and visual quality. Though 
seemingly unbelievable when we first 
launched RTX and DLSS at SIGGRAPH 
2018, real-time ray tracing and AIgenerated images have revolutionized 
computer graphics. With DLSS, we 
compute one pixel, while AI generates 
15, allowing us to dedicate available 
computation to creating a few beautiful 
samples because AI can predict the 
rest. This hybrid physics-AI method will 
revolutionize many fields of science.
NVIDIA is again driving a broad 
transformation powered by the 
expansion of AI computing to PCs. 
Generative AI is quickly emerging as the 
new “killer app” for high-performance 
PCs. NVIDIA RTX GPUs define the most 

performant AI PCs and workstations. 
With over 100 million RTX GPUs in use, 
NVIDIA RTX is the natural platform 
for AI application developers.
NVIDIA ACE is a digital avatar cloud 
API with customizable microservices. 
It lets developers bring game 
characters to life and deploy them 
across various platforms and 
clouds with secure and consistent 
performance. Realistic and engaging 
game characters are now possible 
with generative AI and LLMs. Digital 
humans will be the next leap in gaming.
GeForce NOW cloud gaming had an 
incredible year. There are currently 
more than 1,900 games on GeForce 
NOW enjoyed by 30 million registered 
gamers daily across 110 countries.
Steering Automotive Growth
The rapid advance of generative AI 
technology will propel the shift from 
software-defined vehicles to AI-defined 
vehicles. NVIDIA collaborates closely 
with automotive manufacturers, 
including Continental, Desay, Flex, 
Foxconn, Lenovo, Quanta, and ZF, to 
create cutting-edge electric vehicles 
for the world market. These vehicles 
utilize the advanced NVIDIA DRIVE 
Hyperion platform and NVIDIA 
DRIVE AGX systems-on-a-chip. 
Designed and optimized for generative 
AI utilizing NVIDIA’s Blackwell 
architecture, DRIVE AGX Thor will 
revolutionize an automotive landscape 
where gen AI redefines the driving 
experience. BYD, the world’s leading 
new energy vehicle maker, will expand 
the use of DRIVE Thor for its future 
premium cars. Waabi is leveraging 
DRIVE Thor to deliver one of the first 
generative AI-powered autonomous 
trucking solutions. Nuro will use Thor 
to power its integrated autonomous 
driving commercial goods delivery 
fleet. Li Auto, a pioneer in extendedrange electric vehicles, XPENG, and 
GAC selected the NVIDIA DRIVE 
Thor centralized car computer to 
power their next-generation fleets.
DRIVE AGX Orin also powers cars from 
Volvo, Polestar, Lucid, Great Wall Motor, 
SAIC, ZEEKR, NIO, Xiaomi, and XPENG. 
In addition to helping vehicle-makers 
develop their AI-defined computers 
in their car and build a safe operating 
system for autonomous vehicles, NVIDIA 
develops the full-stack active safety, 
parking and Level 2+/3 software for 
Mercedes-Benz and Jaguar Land Rover. 
NVIDIA’s full-stack computer and 
software allow customers to pick and 
choose how to leverage the DRIVE 
platform for their fleets. NVIDIA has 
developed an end-to-end platform, 
from the cloud to the car, to enable 
the automotive ecosystem to develop 
industry-leading AI-defined vehicles. 
Industrial Digitalization
Manufacturing is the world’s largest 
industry. Digitalization of manufacturing 
has been challenging. Representing 
and predicting physical properties 
from start to finish in manufacturing 
is difficult. With the Universal Scene 
Description (OpenUSD) format, 
every step—from design, simulation, 
and manufacturing to marketing—
can be connected to a standard 
interchangeable representation. And 
with generative AI and accelerated 
computing, the massive and physically 
complex worlds of manufacturing can 
be simulated virtual environments.
Based on OpenUSD and powered by 
NVIDIA’s state-of-the-art graphics, 
physics simulation, generative AI, 
accelerated computing, and cloud 
supercomputing technologies, NVIDIA 
Omniverse is a one-of-a-kind, virtualworld emulation engine. Omniverse 
cloud APIs make it easy to connect 
to the world’s leading industrial tools 
and platforms. Designed parts from 
different tools and different stages of 
manufacturing can be integrated and 
composed inside Omniverse to represent 
a digital twin of the whole product.
Omniverse digital twins help companies 
do virtual product integration, virtually 
start up new factories, test new 
manufacturing flows, and refine 
plant layouts to improve operations. 
Digital twins are the essential 
digital representations of the 
industrial digitalization process and 
Omniverse is the operating system.
NVIDIA works with industry leaders like 
Ansys, Cadence, Dassault Systèmes, 
Siemens, and many others. They 
use Omniverse technologies to help 
customers design, simulate, build, and 
operate physically based digital twins 
and fully realize their potential. We 
also expanded our partnership with 
Microsoft to bring NVIDIA Omniverse 
Cloud Services to Azure customers.
The ChatGPT Moment 
for Robotics Is Coming
The next wave of AI is versatile and highfunctioning robotics, and it’s around 
the corner. AI will understand us and 
the physical world, and like ChatGPT’s 
ability to generate a response from 
our instruction, robots will generate 
manipulation from our instruction. 

NVIDIA GR00T is an LLM for humanoid 
robots. Isaac Sim is a robotic gym 
built in Omniverse. NVIDIA Jetson is 
a robot computer. NVIDIA robotics 
platforms for building and deploying 
AI-powered robots, such as the 
Isaac software and Jetson computer, 
have over 1.2 million developers and 
10,000 customers and partners.
NVIDIA has dedicated nearly a decade 
to robotics AI and is excited to see it all 
come together. In time, humanoid and 
task-specific robots will be an industry 
larger than the auto and consumer 
electronics industries combined.
A Defining Year and the 
Start of a Defining Decade
This year was a watershed moment 
for NVIDIA, our customers, and our 
ecosystem partners. NVIDIA accelerated 
computing has reached the tipping point, 
fundamentally reinvented computing, 
and is the path forward for sustainable 
computing. Generative AI is driving a 
platform transition and starting a new 
industrial revolution where AI factories 
will manufacture intelligence. NVIDIA 
is at the center of the simultaneous 
computing and industrial revolution.
NVIDIA is the result of the decadeslong pursuit of a vision and the life’s 
work of our employees. NVIDIA is 
well-known for the caliber of our people, 
who have worked together for a long 
time, and our determined and resilient 
culture that prioritizes our people.
2023 was an extraordinary year. 
Though trouble around the world 
made it challenging, I’m incredibly 
proud of the character of people, 
proud that we supported our families 
throughout, and proud that we focused 
on creating the conditions for our 
employees to do their life’s work. 
2024 is shaping up to be even more 
incredible. We can expect unbelievable 
technology breakthroughs from 
next-level LLMs and generative 
AI across many industries, from 
digital biology to robotics. You’ll 
want to see what’s coming.
Jensen Huang 
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA 
May 2024

Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting 
Proxy Statement and Form 10-K 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Certain statements in this document including, but not limited to, statements as to: the impact, benefits, abilities, features, performance, and 
availability of our products, services, and technologies, including NVIDIA HGX computers, NVIDIA Hopper GPUs, NVIDIA CUDA, Tensor Cores, 
NVLink, DGX, cuDNN, TensorRT, SHARP in-networking processing, NVIDIA AI Research and application-specific AI platforms—full-stack AI 
platforms for DLSS RTX neural graphics, DRIVE AV self-driving cars, Isaac robotics, ACE digital humans, NeMo LLMs, BioNeMo digital biology, 
and Clara medical imaging, NVIDIA Blackwell, NVIDIA’s RAPIDS acceleration libraries, GB200 NVL72, Grace Blackwell GB200 Superchips, NVIDIA 
B200 Tensor Core GPUs, NVIDIA Grace CPUs, Quantum InfiniBand and Spectrum Ethernet switches, NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA NIMs, NVIDIA 
IGX and Holoscan platforms, NVIDIA RTX GPUs, GeForce NOW, NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform, NVIDIA DRIVE AGX systems-on-a-chip, DRIVE 
AGX Thor, DRIVE AGX Orin, NVIDIA Omniverse, Omniverse cloud APIs, NVIDIA GR00T, NVIDIA Jetson, Isaac software; third parties using or 
adopting NVIDIA products, technologies and platforms, and the benefits and impacts thereof; our partnerships and collaborations with third 
parties; accelerated computing and generative AI transforming the computer industry and every other industry worldwide; the exponentially 
growing demand for computing in a cost- and energy-sustainable way; accelerated computing modernizing the world’s trillion-dollar data center 
infrastructure; deep learning being able to scale to tackle many previously impossible challenges with new network architecture innovations, 
more data, and more compute; NVIDIA’s ability to apply AI firsthand to create new markets; computers now being able to generate information 
based on human prompts; generative AI gaining a deeper understanding of the world and being able to translate across different modalities; the 
ability of generative AI to create an image based on a prompt; the ability of AI to generate the structure of a protein from an amino acid sequence; 
computers understanding people and the world and performing tasks that previously required human intelligence; with generative AI, computers 
being able to augment and amplify humans to perform tasks with greater ease and speed, help us be more productive, and solve problems 
previously unimaginable; climate scientists using generative AI to map tens of thousands of potential trajectories of a weather pattern in seconds 
to predict the path of a deadly storm better; the automation of intelligence with generative AI transforming every company in the world's $100 
trillion worth of industries; startups and established companies spanning every conceivable domain and industry investing billions of dollars to 
advance and apply generative AI; companies operating a new type of facility, owned or rented, that produces AI to augment, accelerate, and 
amplify the productivity of their employees and business processes; countries building sovereign AI infrastructures; the potential of AI to help 
tackle the world’s most pressing challenges; companies, governments, and societies raising awareness of the capabilities of AI, inventing 
capabilities to align, guardrail, secure, and control models, sharing best practices, creating new policies, discovering new social norms, 
encouraging debate, and inspiring whole new areas of research in AI security and safety; a trillion dollars’ worth of existing data centers needing 
to be accelerated, and a trillion more dollars being needed to expand the installed base with AI factories in the next five years; NVIDIA accelerating 
roadmap across the board; generative AI models increasing exponentially in scale, doubling about every six months; compute intensity growing 
at 4X every six months if it takes twice as much data to train models twice as large; our interactions with computers being generated by AI 
specifically for that interaction rather than retrieved prerecorded text or content; generative AI letting us reinvent how we interact with 
computers, and demand for GPUs being massive; advances coming from every computer science department and every industry; the amount of 
data generated growing exponentially; pre- and post-processing data for AI often consuming half of the total workload; generative AI 
transforming every industry; copilots, assistants, and agents augmenting and amplifying every employee and business process in the future, 
and enterprises being significant markets for NVIDIA GPU computing; the NVIDIA AI Enterprise software platform centers on the idea that many 
companies wanting to build and operate proprietary AI models, and every company wanting to integrate AI into its business processes to 
accelerate and improve productivity; generative AI transforming healthcare into one of the world’s largest technology industries; hybrid physicsAI method revolutionizing many fields of science; NVIDIA driving a broad transformation powered by the expansion of AI computing to PCs; the 
rapid advance of generative AI technology propelling the shift from software-defined vehicles to AI-defined vehicles; NVIDIA’s end-to-end 
platform, from the cloud to the car, enabling the automotive ecosystem to develop industry-leading AI-defined vehicles; with the Universal Scene 
Description (OpenUSD) format, every step being connected to a standard interchangeable representation; with generative AI and accelerated 
computing, the massive and physically complex worlds of manufacturing being simulated virtual environments; AI understanding us and the 
physical world, and like ChatGPT’s ability to generate a response from our instruction, robots generating manipulation from our instruction; 
humanoid and task-specific robots being an industry larger than the auto and consumer electronics industries combined; generative AI driving 
a platform transition and starting a new industrial revolution where AI factories will manufacture intelligence; and the expectation of unbelievable 
technology breakthroughs from next-level LLMs and generative AI across many industries, from digital biology to robotics are forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors 
that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, 
package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or 
enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners' products; design, manufacturing 
or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of 
performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the most 
recent reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K 
and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA 
without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except 
as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 

NOTICE OF 2024 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Date and time:
Wednesday, June 26, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location:
Virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024
Items of 
business:
Election of twelve directors nominated by the Board of Directors
Advisory approval of our executive compensation
Ratification of the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered 
public accounting firm for fiscal year 2025
A stockholder proposal, if properly presented at the 2024 Meeting
Transaction of other business properly brought before the meeting
Record date:
You can attend and vote at the 2024 Meeting if you were a stockholder of record at the close of 
business on April 29, 2024.
Virtual meeting 
admission:
We will be holding the 2024 Meeting virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024. To 
participate in the annual meeting, you will need the control number included on your notice of proxy 
materials or printed proxy card.
Pre-meeting 
forum:
To communicate with our stockholders in connection with the 2024 Meeting, we have established a 
pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com where you can submit advance questions. 
Your vote is very important. Whether or not you plan to attend the virtual 2024 Meeting, PLEASE VOTE YOUR SHARES. 
As an alternative to voting during the virtual 2024 Meeting, you may vote in advance online, by telephone or, if you have 
elected to receive a paper proxy card in the mail, by mailing the completed proxy card.
Important notice regarding the availability of proxy materials for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on 
June 26, 2024. This Notice, our Proxy Statement, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our Annual Review are available at 
www.nvidia.com/proxy.
By Order of the Board of Directors 
Timothy S. Teter 
Secretary
2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051
May 14, 2024

Table of Contents
Page
DEFINITIONS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

PROXY SUMMARY

PROXY STATEMENT

Information About the 2024 Meeting

Proposal 1—Election of Directors

Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors

Our Director Nominees

Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance

Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors

Board Leadership Structure

Committees of the Board of Directors

Role of the Board in Risk Oversight

Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors

Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors

Majority Vote Standard

Stockholder Special Meeting Right

Board Meeting Information

Corporate Sustainability

Director Compensation

Review of Transactions with Related Persons

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Proposal 2—Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation

Executive Compensation

Compensation Discussion and Analysis

Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans

Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022

Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2024

Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 28, 2024

Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2024

Employment, Severance, and Change-in-Control Arrangements

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control

Pay Ratio

Pay Versus Performance

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

Compensation Committee Report

Proposal 3—Ratification of the Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 

Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors

Proposal 4—Stockholder Proposal: Simple Majority Vote 

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Additional Information

Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports

Other Matters

This Proxy Statement contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical or current facts, including statements regarding 
our corporate sustainability plans and goals, made in this document are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and 
assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” 
“should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential,” and similar expressions intended to identify 
forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons. Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ 
significantly from management’s expectations are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2024.

DEFINITIONS
2007 Plan

Audit Committee of the Board
Additional SY PSUs
PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP Gross Margin performance, with a single-year performance metric 
(assuming a certain level of annual Non-GAAP Operating Income), vesting over four years
ASC 718
FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718: Compensation - Stock Compensation
Base Compensation 
Plan
Performance goal necessary to earn the target award under the Variable Cash Plan and for the target 
numbers of SY PSUs and MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
Board
The Company’s board of directors
Bylaws
The Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws
CAP
“Compensation actually paid,” as defined under Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K
Compensation Committee of the Board
CD&A
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
CEO
Chief Executive Officer
CFO
Chief Financial Officer
Charter
The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Control Number
Identification number for each stockholder included in Notice or proxy card
Corporate sustainability 
ERM
Enterprise risk management
ESPP

Exchange Act
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
FASB
Financial Accounting Standards Board
Fiscal 20__
The Company’s fiscal year ended on the last Sunday in January of the stated year
Form 10-K
The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2024 filed with the SEC on February 21, 2024
GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
Internal Revenue 
Code
U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
Lead Director
Lead independent director
Meeting
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
MY PSUs
Multi-year PSUs with a three-year performance metric, vesting after three years
Nasdaq
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
NCGC
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board
NEOs
Named Executive Officers consisting of our CEO, our CFO, and our other three most highly compensated 
executive officers as of the end of Fiscal 2024
Non-GAAP Gross 
Margin
GAAP gross margin, as the Company reports in its SEC filings, excluding acquisition-related and other costs, 
stock-based compensation expense and IP-related costs. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures in our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results
Non-GAAP Operating 
Income
GAAP operating income, as the Company reports in its SEC filings, excluding stock-based compensation 
expense, acquisition termination cost, acquisition-related and other costs, restructuring costs and other, IPrelated and legal settlement costs, and other. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our 
CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results
Notice
Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials
NVIDIA, Company, 
we, us, our

NYSE
New York Stock Exchange
PSU
Performance stock unit
PwC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RBA
Responsible Business Alliance
RSU
Restricted stock unit
S&P 500
Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Index
SEC
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Section 162(m)
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
Securities Act
Securities Act of 1933, as amended
Stretch 
Compensation Plan
Performance goal necessary to earn the maximum award under the Variable Cash Plan and for the maximum 
numbers of SY PSUs, Additional SY PSUs, and MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
SY PSUs
PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP Operating Income performance with a single-year performance metric, 
vesting over four years
Threshold
Minimum performance goal necessary to earn an award under the Variable Cash Plan and for SY PSUs, 
Additional SY PSUs, and MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
TSR
Total shareholder return
Variable Cash Plan
The Company’s variable cash compensation plan

BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Fiscal 2024 was an extraordinary year. Revenue increased 126% year on year to $60.9 billion on the strength of Data 
Center revenue, driven by higher shipments of the NVIDIA Hopper GPU computing platform for the training and inference 
of LLMs, recommendation engines and generative AI applications, as well as higher shipments of InfiniBand. Gross 
margin increased year on year to 72.7%. We drove strong operating leverage as operating income increased 681% year 
on year to $33.0 billion and diluted earnings per share increased 586% year on year to $11.93.
Fiscal 2024 Results
Revenue
Gross Margin
Operating Income
Diluted Earnings Per 
Share
$60.9 billion 
72.7%
$33.0 billion
$11.93
up 126% year on year
 up 15.8 points year on year 
up 681% year on year 
up 586% year on year 
Fiscal 2024 Reportable Segments
Our two reportable segments are “Compute & Networking” and “Graphics”: 
Compute & Networking
Graphics
All Other*
Consolidated
Revenue
$47.4 billion
$13.5 billion
$60.9 billion
up 215% year on year
up 14% year on year
up 126% year on year
Operating 
Income (Loss)
$32.0 billion
$5.8 billion
$(4.9) billion
$33.0 billion
up 530% year on year
up 28% year on year
down 10% year on year
up 681% year on year
* Includes expenses not assigned to either Compute & Networking or Graphics. 
Fiscal 2024 Market Platforms
Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical:
Data Center
Gaming
Professional 
Visualization
Automotive
$47.5 billion revenue
$10.4 billion revenue
$1.6 billion revenue
$1.1 billion revenue
up 217% year on year
up 15% year on year
up 1% year on year
up 21% year on year

Business Highlights
NVIDIA accelerated computing reached the tipping point, with Data Center revenue more than tripling in Fiscal 
2024 on higher shipments of the NVIDIA Hopper GPU computing platform and InfiniBand 
Started shipping our first Arm-based data center CPU – Grace – as part of the GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip, 
and ramping Grace-based products into a new multi-billion dollar product line
Launched the Blackwell GPU architecture, powering a wave of upcoming data center-scale platforms for the 
trillion-parameter-scale AI
Introduced NVIDIA Spectrum-X, an accelerated networking platform for building multi-tenant, hyperscale AI 
clouds with Ethernet, and announced the new Quantum-X800 InfiniBand and Spectrum-X800 Ethernet switches
Introduced cloud-native NVIDIA Inference Microservices to help developers build and deploy AI and accelerated 
applications, including more than two dozen healthcare NIMs for drug discovery, medical technology, and digital 
health
Announced the NVIDIA GeForce RTX 40 SUPER Series family of gaming GPUs and a platform to fuel the next 
wave of generative AI applications coming to PCs, targeting over 100 million RTX PCs in the installed base
Surpassed $1 billion in full-year Automotive revenue on continued adoption of the NVIDIA DRIVE Orin AI car 
computer and announced several design wins for its successor, DRIVE Thor, available next year
Continued to advance adoption of Omniverse, our virtual world development platform based on OpenUSD, across 
industrial digitalization, robotics, and autonomous vehicle applications with the introduction of cloud APIs
Fiscal 2024 Shareholder Returns
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)*
Return of Capital to Shareholders (in Billions)
*Represents cumulative stock price appreciation with dividends 
reinvested and is measured for the applicable fiscal year periods 
based on the closing price ($610.31) of NVIDIA’s common stock 
on January 26, 2024, the last trading day before the end of our 
Fiscal 2024, as reported by Nasdaq.
Please see our Form 10-K for more financial information for Fiscal 2024.

PROXY SUMMARY
This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in the proxy statement. This summary does not contain all the 
information that you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement carefully before voting.
2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
Date and time:
Wednesday, June 26, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location:
Virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024
Record date:
Stockholders as of April 29, 2024 are entitled to vote
Admission to meeting:
You will need your Control Number to attend the 2024 Meeting
Voting Matters and Board Recommendations 
A summary of the 2024 Meeting proposals is below. Every stockholder’s vote is important. Our Board urges you to vote 
your shares FOR Proposals 1, 2, and 3. Our Board has elected not to make a voting recommendation with respect to 
Proposal 4. 
Matter
Page
Board 
Recommends
Vote Required 
for Approval
Effect of 
Abstentions
Effect of 
Broker NonVotes
Management Proposals:

Election of twelve directors

FOR each 
director nominee
More FOR than 
AGAINST votes
None
None

Advisory approval of our 
executive compensation

FOR
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter
Against
None

Ratification of the selection of 
PwC as our independent 
registered public accounting 
firm for Fiscal 2025

FOR
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter
Against
N/A (1)
Stockholder Proposal:

Simple Majority Vote

No voting 
recommendation
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter
Against
None
(1) Because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes.

Election of Directors (Proposal 1)
The following table provides summary information about each director nominee:
Name
Age
Director 
Since
Independent
Financial 
Expert (1)
Committee Membership
Other Public 
Company Boards
Robert K. Burgess

Tench Coxe


John O. Dabiri

Persis S. Drell

NCGC
Jen-Hsun Huang

Dawn Hudson

CC Chairperson

Harvey C. Jones 

AC, CC, NCGC (2)
Melissa B. Lora


Stephen C. Neal
(Lead Director)

NCGC Chairperson
A. Brooke Seawell

AC Chairperson

Aarti Shah 

AC, CC (3)

Mark A. Stevens

2008 (4)
AC, NCGC
(1) Qualified as an AC financial expert.
(2) Mr. Jones will serve on the CC until the 2024 Meeting. After the 2024 Meeting, he will serve on the AC and continue to serve on the NCGC.
(3) Dr. Shah will serve on the CC and continue to serve on the AC after the 2024 Meeting. 
(4) Previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006.
Recent Refreshment, Board Demographics, and Nominee Qualifications
Our director nominees exhibit a variety of competencies, professional experience, and backgrounds, and contribute 
diverse viewpoints and perspectives to our Board. While the Board benefits from the experience and institutional 
knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in new perspectives and ideas through the 
appointment of three new directors since 2020. The Board also regularly rotates committee membership and 
chairpersons to promote a diversity of viewpoints on the Board committees. 
The Board and the NCGC continue to seek highly qualified women and individuals from underrepresented groups to 
include in the initial pool of potential director nominees, as discussed below under Director Qualifications and Nomination 
of Directors. The Board’s commitment to achieving a diverse and inclusive membership is demonstrated by our director 
nominees. Four of our directors are women and three are ethnically and/or racially diverse. Our three newest members 
enhance the Board’s gender, ethnic, and/or racial diversity.
Mark L. Perry and Michael G. McCaffery are not seeking re-election and their Board service will end on the date of the 
2024 Meeting. Effective as of the date of the 2024 Meeting, the size of our Board will be reduced to 12 members.
Nominee Demographics

Nominee Skills, Competencies, and Attributes
Below are the skills, competencies, and attributes that our NCGC and Board consider important for our directors to have, 
considering our current business and future market opportunities, and the director nominees who possess them: 
Senior 
Leadership 
Operations 
Experience
Industry 
Technical
Financial /
Financial 
Community
Governance 
& Public 
Company 
Board
Emerging 
Technologies 
& Business 
Models
Marketing, 
Communications 
& Brand 
Management
Regulatory, 
Legal & Risk 
Management
Human 
Capital 
Management 
Experience 
Diversity
Burgess
Coxe
Dabiri
Drell
Huang
Hudson
Jones
Lora
Neal
Seawell
Shah
Stevens
Corporate Governance Highlights
Our Board is committed to strong corporate governance to promote the long-term interests of the Company and our 
stockholders. We seek a collaborative approach to stockholder issues that affect our business and to ensure that our 
stockholders see our governance and executive pay practices as well-structured. In the Fall of 2023, we contacted our 
top institutional stockholders, representing an aggregate ownership of 31%, to gain insights into their views on corporate 
sustainability practices, and diversity and inclusion. 
Highlights of our corporate governance practices include: 
ü All Board members independent, except for our CEO
ü Independent Lead Director
ü Proxy access
ü Declassified Board
ü Majority voting for directors
ü Active Board oversight of enterprise risk and risk 
management
ü Stockholders can call a special meeting
ü 75% or greater attendance by each Board member at 
meetings of the Board and applicable committees
ü Independent directors frequently meet in executive
 sessions
ü At least annual Board and committee self-assessments 
ü Annual stockholder outreach, including Lead Director 
participation
ü Stock ownership guidelines for our directors and NEOs
Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation for Fiscal 2024 (Proposal 2)
We are asking our stockholders to cast a non-binding vote, also known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our NEOs’ 
compensation. The Board believes that our compensation policies and practices are effective in achieving our goals of 
paying for performance; providing competitive pay so that we may attract and retain a high-caliber executive team; 
aligning our executives’ interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value; and achieving simplicity and 
transparency with our compensation program. The Board and our stockholders have approved holding our “say-on-pay” 
votes annually. 
Executive Compensation Highlights
Our executive compensation program is designed to pay for performance. We utilize compensation elements that align 
our NEOs’ interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value. Our NEOs’ compensation is heavily 
weighted toward performance-based, “at-risk” variable cash and long-term equity awards that are only earned if the 
Company achieves pre-established corporate financial metrics, subject to caps on maximum payout. For the last several 
years, over 90% of our CEO’s and over 50% of our other NEOs’ target pay has been performance-based and at-risk, and 
100% of our CEO’s equity awards have been in the form of PSUs.
To motivate our NEOs to focus on operational efficiencies and providing value-added products, the CC provided our 
executives with an opportunity to earn Additional SY PSUs if we achieved (i) Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income at 

or above Base Compensation Plan and (ii) a Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin goal. In light of an increasingly complex 
macroeconomic environment, the CC set (a) Base Compensation Plan goals close to actual performance for Fiscal 2023 
and (b) Stretch Compensation Plan goals at levels that would require year-over-year growth, representing extremely 
strong financial performance to further align corporate performance and executive pay.
Financial Performance and Link to Executive Pay
As described further in our CD&A, a significant portion of our executive pay opportunities are tied to the achievement of 
financial measures that drive business value and contribute to our long-term success. The table below shows our goals 
for the applicable periods that were completed at the end of Fiscal 2024 and their respective impact on our executive 
pay.
PERFORMANCE GOALS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Fiscal 2024 
Revenue
Payout as a 
% of Target 
Opportunity 
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (1)
Shares Eligible to Vest as a 
% of Target Opportunity 
Fiscal 2022 to 

3-Year Relative 
TSR
Shares 
Eligible to 
Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity
Threshold
$20.0 billion
20%
$4.6 billion
20%
25th percentile
25%
Base Compensation 
Plan 
$26.0 billion
100%
$9.4 billion
100%
50th percentile
100%
Stretch 
Compensation Plan 
$29.5 billion
200%
$11.9 billion
CEO 150% 
Other NEOs 200%
Additional 50% possible for 
all NEOs (2)
75th percentile
CEO 150% 
Other NEOs 
200%
PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENT AND PAYOUTS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Performance 
Achievement for 
Period Ended Fiscal 
2024 (3)
$60.9 billion revenue
 
$37.1 billion Non-GAAP Operating Income (1)
For Additional SY PSUs only, 73.8% Non-GAAP
Gross Margin (1)
 99th percentile 3-year TSR 
relative to S&P 500
Payout as % of 
Target Opportunity
200%
With Additional SY PSUs, CEO 200%
Other NEOs 250%
CEO 150%
Other NEOs 200%
(1) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below in our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(2) Contingent upon the Company achieving (a) Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income at Base Compensation Plan of $9.4 billion or more and (b) Fiscal 
2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin of 68.5% or more. 
(3) See Performance Metrics and Goals for Executive Compensation below in our CD&A for a description and further discussion of revenue, Non-GAAP 
Operating Income, Non-GAAP Gross Margin, and 3-year relative TSR.
Ratification of Selection of PwC as our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2025 (Proposal 3)
Although not required, we are asking our stockholders to ratify the AC’s selection of PwC as our independent registered 
public accounting firm for Fiscal 2025 because we believe it is a matter of good corporate practice. If our stockholders do 
not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider the appointment, but may nevertheless retain PwC. Even if the selection is 
ratified, the AC may select a different independent registered public accounting firm at any time if it determines that 
such a change would be in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders.
Stockholder Proposal: Simple Majority Vote (Proposal 4)
A stockholder is asking our Board to take steps to replace the supermajority voting provisions in our Charter and Bylaws 
with a simple majority standard. The proposal is advisory only, and our Board does not recommend a vote either for or 
against the proposal. Approval of the proposal would not, by itself, implement a majority voting standard, and our Board 
and our stockholders would need to take subsequent action to replace the supermajority voting provisions in our Charter 
and Bylaws with a simple majority standard. 

Corporate Sustainability 
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound 
CS principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. This proxy statement covers the following CS topics:

2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051
(408) 486-2000
 ____________________________________________________
PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2024 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS - JUNE 26, 2024
 ____________________________________________________
Information About the 2024 Meeting
Your proxy is being solicited on behalf of the Board for use at the 2024 Meeting. Our 2024 Meeting will take place 
virtually on Wednesday, June 26, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. 
Virtual Meeting Philosophy and Benefits
The Board believes that holding the 2024 Meeting in a virtual format invites stockholder participation, while reducing the 
costs to stockholders and the Company associated with an in-person meeting. This balance allows the 2024 Meeting to 
remain focused on matters directly relevant to the interests of stockholders in an efficient way. We have designed the 
virtual format to protect stockholder rights, including by offering multiple opportunities to ask questions, publishing 
answers to questions received before or during the 2024 Meeting on our Investor Relations website, and providing an 
archived copy of the webcast after the 2024 Meeting.
Meeting Attendance
If you were an NVIDIA stockholder as of the close of business on the April 29, 2024 record date, or if you hold a valid 
proxy, you can attend, ask questions during, and vote at our 2024 Meeting at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/
NVDA2024. Our 2024 Meeting will be held virtually; use the Control Number included on your Notice or printed proxy card 
to enter. Anyone can also listen to the 2024 Meeting live at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024. 
If you encounter any difficulties accessing the virtual 2024 Meeting during the check-in or the course of the 2024 
Meeting, please call the technical support number available on www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024.
An archived copy of the webcast will be available at www.nvidia.com/proxy through June 25, 2025. Even if you plan to 
attend the 2024 Meeting virtually, we recommend that you also vote by proxy as described below so that your vote will be 
counted if you later decide not to attend. 
Asking Questions
We encourage stockholders to submit questions through our pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com (using 
the Control Number included on your Notice or printed proxy card), as well as during the 2024 Meeting at 
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2024. During the 2024 Meeting, we will answer as many stockholdersubmitted questions related to the business of the 2024 Meeting as time permits. As soon as practicable following the 
2024 Meeting, we will publish and answer questions received on our Investor Relations website. We intend to group 
questions and answers by topic and substantially similar questions will be answered only once. To promote fairness to all 
stockholders and efficient use of the Company’s resources, we will respond to one question per stockholder. We reserve 
the right to exclude questions regarding topics that are not pertinent to company business or are not otherwise suitable 
for the conduct of the 2024 Meeting.
Quorum and Voting
To hold our 2024 Meeting, we need a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the close of business on the 
April 29, 2024 record date, or a quorum, represented at the 2024 Meeting either by attendance virtually or by proxy. On 
April 29, 2024, there were 2,459,834,197 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote, meaning that 
1,229,917,099 shares must be represented at the 2024 Meeting or by proxy to have a quorum. A list of stockholders 
entitled to vote at the close of business on the record date will be available at our headquarters, 2788 San Tomas 

Expressway, Santa Clara, California, for 10 days prior to the 2024 Meeting to registered stockholders for any legally valid 
purpose related to the 2024 Meeting. To schedule an appointment to view the stockholder list during the 10 days prior to 
the 2024 Meeting, please contact us at shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com.
Your shares will be counted towards the quorum only if you submit a valid proxy or vote at the 2024 Meeting. 
Abstentions and broker non-votes will be counted towards the quorum requirement. If there is not a quorum, a majority 
of the votes present may adjourn the 2024 Meeting to another date.
For Proposal 1, you may vote FOR or AGAINST any nominee to the Board, or you may ABSTAIN from voting. For each 
other matter to be voted on, you may vote FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN from voting. 
Stockholder of Record
You are a stockholder of record if your shares were registered directly in your name with our transfer agent, 
Computershare, on April 29, 2024. You can vote shares, change your vote, or revoke your proxy before the final vote at 
the 2024 Meeting in any of the following ways:
Vote
Change Your 
Vote
Revoke Your 
Proxy
Virtually attend and vote at the 2024 Meeting
Via mail, by signing and mailing your proxy card to us before the 2024 
Meeting
By telephone or online, by following the instructions provided in the Notice or 
your proxy materials
Submit another properly completed proxy card with a later date
Send a written notice that you are revoking your proxy to NVIDIA Corporation, 
2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051, Attention: 
Timothy S. Teter, Secretary, or via email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com
If you do not vote using any of the ways described above, your shares will not be voted.
Street Name Holder 
If your shares were held through a nominee, such as a bank or broker, as of April 29, 2024, then you were the beneficial 
owner of shares held in “street name,” and you have the right to direct the nominee how to vote those shares for the 
2024 Meeting. The nominee should provide you a separate Notice or voting instructions, and you should follow those 
instructions to tell the nominee how to vote. To vote by attending the 2024 Meeting virtually, you must obtain a valid 
proxy from your nominee. 
If you are a beneficial holder and do not provide voting instructions to your nominee, the nominee will not be authorized 
to vote your shares on “non-routine” matters, including elections of directors (even if not contested), executive 
compensation (including any advisory stockholder votes on executive compensation), and the stockholder proposal. This 
is called a “broker non-vote.” However, the nominee can still register your shares as being present at the 2024 Meeting 
for determining quorum, and the nominee will have discretion to vote for matters considered by the NYSE to be “routine,” 
including Proposal 3 regarding the ratification of the selection of our independent registered public accounting firm. If 
you are a beneficial owner and want to ensure that all of the shares you beneficially own are voted in favor or against 
Proposal 3, you must give your broker or nominee specific instructions to do so or the broker will have discretion to vote 
on that proposal. In addition, you MUST give your nominee instructions in order for your vote to be counted on 
Proposals 1, 2 and 4, as these are “non-discretionary” items. We strongly encourage you to vote.
Any NVIDIA stockholder whose shares are held in street name by a member brokerage firm may revoke a proxy and vote 
their shares at the 2024 Meeting only in accordance with applicable rules and procedures of the national stock 
exchanges, as employed by the street name holder’s brokerage firm. 

Vote Count
On each matter to be voted upon, stockholders have one vote for each share of NVIDIA common stock owned as of April 
29, 2024. Votes will be counted by the inspector of election as follows:
Proposal 
Number
Proposal Description
Vote Required for Approval 
Effect of 
Abstentions
Broker 
Non-Votes

Election of twelve directors
Directors are elected if they receive 
more FOR votes than AGAINST 
votes
None
None

Advisory approval of our executive 
compensation
FOR votes from the holders of a 
majority of shares present, in 
person or represented by proxy, 
and entitled to vote on this matter
Against
None

Ratification of the selection of PwC 
as our independent registered public 
accounting firm for Fiscal 2025
FOR votes from the holders of a 
majority of shares present, in 
person or represented by proxy, 
and entitled to vote on this matter
Against
N/A (1)

Stockholder Proposal: Simple 
Majority Vote
FOR votes from the holders of a 
majority of shares present, in 
person or represented by proxy, 
and entitled to vote on this matter
Against
None
(1) Because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes.
If you are a stockholder of record and you return a signed proxy card without marking any selections, your shares will be 
voted FOR each of the nominees listed in Proposal 1, FOR Proposals 2 and 3, and, in accordance with our Board’s election 
to make no recommendation with respect to Proposal 4, no vote will be made by Jen-Hsun Huang or Timothy S. Teter as 
your proxyholder on Proposal 4. If any other matter is properly presented at the 2024 Meeting, one of those proxyholders 
will vote your shares using his best judgment.
Vote Results
Preliminary voting results will be announced at the 2024 Meeting. Final voting results will be published in a current report 
on Form 8-K, which will be filed with the SEC by July 2, 2024.
Proxy Materials
As permitted by SEC rules, we are making our proxy materials available to stockholders online at www.nvidia.com/proxy. 
On or about May 14, 2024, we sent stockholders who owned our common stock at the close of business on April 29, 2024 
(other than those who previously requested electronic or paper delivery) a Notice containing instructions on how to 
access our proxy materials, vote online or by telephone, and elect to receive future proxy materials electronically or in 
printed form by mail.
If you choose to receive future proxy materials electronically (via www.proxyvote.com for stockholders of record and 
www.icsdelivery.com/nvda for street name holders), you will receive an email next year with links to the proxy materials 
and proxy voting site. 
SEC rules also permit companies and intermediaries, such as brokers, to satisfy Notice and proxy material delivery 
requirements for multiple stockholders with the same address by delivering a single Notice or set of proxy materials 
addressed to those stockholders. We follow this practice, known as “householding,” unless we have received contrary 
instructions from any stockholder at that address. 
If you received more than one Notice or full set of proxy materials, then your shares are either registered in more than 
one name or are held in different accounts. Please vote the shares covered by each Notice or proxy card. To modify your 
instructions so that you receive one Notice or proxy card for each account or name, please contact your broker. Your 
“householding” election will continue until you are notified otherwise or until you revoke your consent. 
To make a change regarding the form in which you receive proxy materials (electronically or in print), or to request receipt 
of a separate set of documents to a household, contact our Investor Relations Department through our website at 
www.nvidia.com, by email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com, by phone at (408) 486-2000, or by mail at 2788 San Tomas 
Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051.
We will pay the entire cost of soliciting proxies. Our directors and employees may also solicit proxies in person, by 
telephone, by mail, via the Internet, or by other means of communication. Our directors and employees will not be paid 
any additional compensation for soliciting proxies. We have also retained MacKenzie Partners on an advisory basis for an 
approximate fee of $15,000 and they may help us solicit proxies from brokers, bank nominees, and other institutional 
owners. We may also reimburse brokerage firms, banks, and other agents for the cost of forwarding proxy materials to 
beneficial owners.

2025 Meeting Deadlines for Submission of Stockholder Proposals, Nomination of Directors, and Other Business of 
Stockholders
Proposals to be Considered for Inclusion in Our Proxy Materials Pursuant to Rule 14a-8
Stockholders who wish to present proposals pursuant to Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act for inclusion in 
the proxy materials to be distributed by us in connection with our 2025 Meeting must submit their proposals in writing to 

by email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com, on or before January 14, 2025.
Director Nominations Under Our Proxy Access Bylaw
A stockholder (or a group of up to 20 stockholders) who has owned at least 3% of the voting power of our outstanding 
capital stock for at least three continuous years and has complied with the other requirements in our Bylaws may 
nominate and include in our proxy materials director nominees constituting up to the greater of (a) up to two director 
candidates or (b) up to 20% of the number of directors in office on the last day that a submission may be delivered. 
Notice of a proxy access nomination for consideration at our 2025 Meeting must be received following the above 
instructions not later than the close of business on March 28, 2025, and not earlier than February 26, 2025. In the event 
that we hold the 2025 Meeting more than 30 days prior to, or delayed by more than 30 days after, the first anniversary of 
the 2024 Meeting, for written notice by the stockholder to be timely, such notice must be delivered following the above 
instructions not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the 2025 Meeting and not later than the close 
of business on the 90th day prior to the 2025 Meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement 
of the date of the 2025 Meeting is first made by us, whichever is later.
Other Director Nominations and Proposals
Apart from Rule 14a-8 and the proxy access provision of our Bylaws, under our Bylaws certain procedures must be 
followed for a stockholder to nominate a director or to introduce an item of business at an annual meeting of 
stockholders. If you wish to nominate a director or introduce an item of business at the 2025 Meeting that is not 
included in the proxy materials to be distributed by us in connection with our 2025 Meeting, you must do so in writing 
following the above instructions not later than the close of business on March 28, 2025, and not earlier than February 26, 
2025. In the event that we hold the 2025 Meeting more than 30 days prior to, or delayed by more than 70 days after, the 
first anniversary of the 2024 Meeting, for written notice by the stockholder to be timely, such notice must be delivered 
following the above instructions not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the 2025 Meeting and 
not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the 2025 Meeting or the 10th day following the day on which 
public announcement of the date of the 2025 Meeting is first made by us, whichever is later.
Additional Requirements and Information
We also advise you to review our Bylaws, which contain additional requirements about advance notice of stockholder 
proposals, director nominations, and proxy access nominations. We recognize the importance of the ability of our 
stockholders to nominate directors to our Board. Accordingly, our Board will take into account feedback we receive from 
our stockholder engagement process regarding the process and disclosure requirements of our Bylaws for nominating 
directors and other proposals. Our Board will engage with stockholders of various holdings size regarding any proposed 
amendments to our Bylaws that would require a nominating stockholder to disclose to us (i) such stockholder’s plans to 
nominate candidates to the board of directors of other public companies, or disclose prior director nominations or 
proposals that such stockholder privately submitted to other public companies or (ii) information about such 
stockholder’s limited partners or business associates beyond the existing requirements of our Bylaws.

Proposal 1—Election of Directors
What am I voting on? Electing the 12 director nominees identified below to hold office until the 2025 Meeting and until 
his or her successor is elected or appointed.
Vote required for approval: Directors are elected if they receive more FOR votes than AGAINST votes.
Effect of abstentions: None.
Effect of broker non-votes: None.
Our Board currently consists of 14 members, 12 of whom are standing for re-election at the 2024 Meeting. Our 
nominees include 11 independent directors, as defined by the rules and regulations of Nasdaq, and one NVIDIA officer: 
Mr. Huang, who serves as our President and CEO. 
Mark L. Perry and Michael G. McCaffery are not seeking re-election and their Board service will end on the date of the 
2024 Meeting. Mr. Perry served on the Board for nearly 20 years, including five years as Lead Director and over a decade 
as Chairperson of the AC, and contributed invaluable insights and perspectives based on his extensive governance and 
finance experience and a deep understanding of the roles and responsibilities of a corporate board. During Mr. 
McCaffery’s near-decade tenure on the Board and AC, including five years as Chairperson of the AC, he brought financial 
and public market expertise, as well as substantial executive management and corporate governance experience. We are 
grateful to Mr. Perry and Mr. McCaffery for their contributions to NVIDIA during times of significant company growth and 
transformation. Effective as of the date of the 2024 Meeting, the size of our Board will be reduced to 12 members.
All of our directors have one-year terms and stand for election annually. Each nominee, other than Ms. Lora, is currently a 
director of NVIDIA previously elected by our stockholders. 
The Board expects the nominees will be available for election. If a nominee declines or is unable to act as a director, your 
proxy may be voted for any substitute nominee proposed by the Board or the size of the Board may be reduced. 
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the election of each of the following nominees:
Name
Age
Director 
Since
Occupation
Independent
Financial 
Expert (1)
Committee 
Membership
Other Public 
Company 
Boards
Robert K. Burgess

Independent Consultant
Tench Coxe

Former Managing Director, 
Sutter Hill Ventures

John O. Dabiri

Centennial Professor of 
Aeronautics and Mechanical 
Engineering, California Institute 
of Technology
Persis S. Drell

Professor of Materials Science 
and Engineering and Physics, 
and Former Provost, Stanford 
University
NCGC
Jen-Hsun Huang

President & CEO, NVIDIA 
Corporation
Dawn Hudson

Former Chief Marketing Officer, 
National Football League
Chairperson

Harvey C. Jones 

Managing Partner, Square Wave 
Ventures
AC, CC, NCGC 
(2)
Melissa B. Lora

Former President, Taco Bell 
International

Stephen C. Neal
(Lead Director)

Chairman Emeritus & Senior 
Counsel, Cooley LLP
NCGC 
Chairperson
A. Brooke Seawell

Venture Partner, New 
Enterprise Associates
Chairperson

Aarti Shah

Former Senior Vice President & 
Chief Information and Digital 
Officer, Eli Lilly and Company
AC, CC (3)

Mark A. Stevens

2008 (4) Managing Partner, S-Cubed 
Capital
AC, NCGC
(1) Qualified as an AC financial expert.
(2) Mr. Jones will serve on the CC until the 2024 Meeting. After the 2024 Meeting, he will serve on the AC and continue to serve on the NCGC.
(3) Dr. Shah will serve on the CC and continue to serve on the AC after the 2024 Meeting. 
(4) Previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006.

Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors
The NCGC identifies, reviews and assesses the qualifications of existing and potential directors and selects nominees for 
recommendation to the Board for approval. In accordance with our Corporate Governance Policies and the NCGC Charter, 
the NCGC is committed to Board diversity and shall consider a nominee’s background and experience to ensure that a 
broad range of perspectives is represented on the Board. The NCGC may conduct appropriate and necessary inquiries 
into the backgrounds and qualifications of possible candidates and may engage a professional search firm to identify and 
assist the committee in identifying, evaluating, and conducting due diligence on potential director nominees. The NCGC 
has not established specific age, gender, education, experience, or skill requirements for potential members, and instead 
considers numerous factors regarding the nominee, taking into account our current and future business models, 
including the following: 
• Integrity and candor
• Independence
• Senior leadership and operational experience
• Professional, technical and industry knowledge
• Financial expertise
• Financial community experience (including as an investor in 
other companies)
• Marketing, communications and brand management 
background
• Governance and public company board experience
• Experience with emerging technologies and new business 
models
• Regulatory, legal, and risk management expertise, including in 
cybersecurity matters
• Diversity, including race, ethnicity, sexuality, gender, or 
membership in another underrepresented community
• Human capital management experience
• Experience in academia
• Willingness and ability to devote substantial time and effort to 
Board responsibilities and Company oversight
• Ability to represent the interests of the stockholders as a whole 
rather than special interest groups or constituencies
• All relationships between the proposed nominee and any of our 
stockholders, competitors, customers, suppliers, or other 
persons with a relationship to NVIDIA
• For nominees for re-election, overall service to NVIDIA, including 
past attendance, participation and contributions to the 
activities of the Board and its committees
The NCGC and the Board understand the importance of Board refreshment, and strive to maintain an appropriate balance 
of tenure, diversity, professional experience and backgrounds, skills, and education on the Board. While the Board 
benefits from the experience and institutional knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in 
new perspectives and ideas through the appointment of three new directors since 2020. The Board also regularly rotates 
committee membership and chairpersons to help promote a diversity of viewpoints on the Board committees. Our 
longer-tenured directors are familiar with our operations and business areas and have the perspective of overseeing our 
activities from a variety of economic and competitive environments, which enhances the Board’s oversight of strategy 
and risks. Given the growth of the Company and the breadth of our product offerings, as well as the increasingly complex 
macroeconomic and geopolitical factors we face, these experienced directors are a significant asset to the Board. Our 
newer directors have brought expertise in brand development and cybersecurity, familiarity with technology 
developments at leading academic institutions, and senior management and operating experience as well as finance 
experience, all of which are important to supporting NVIDIA as it enters new markets. Each year, the NCGC and Board 
review each director’s individual performance, including the director’s past contributions, outside experiences and 
activities, and committee participation, and determine how his or her experience and skills continue to add value to 
NVIDIA and the Board.
The Board and the NCGC continue to seek highly qualified women and individuals from underrepresented groups to 
include in the initial pool of director candidates. The Board’s commitment to achieving a diverse and inclusive 
membership is demonstrated by our director nominees. Four of our directors are women and three of our directors are 
ethnically and/or racially diverse. Our three newest members enhance the Board’s gender, ethnic, and/or racial diversity. 

Below are the skills, competencies, and attributes that our Board considers important for our directors to have, 
considering our current business and future market opportunities:
Senior Leadership 
& Operations 
Experience
Directors with senior leadership and operations experience provide informed oversight 
of our business, and unique experiences and perspectives. They are uniquely positioned 
to contribute practical insight into business strategy and operations, driving growth, 
building and strengthening corporate culture, and supporting the achievement of 
strategic priorities and objectives.
Industry & 
Technical
Directors with industry experience and technical backgrounds facilitate within the Board 
a deeper understanding of innovations and a technical assessment of our products and 
services. 
Financial/Financial 
Community
Experience in financial matters and the financial community assists our Board with 
review of our operations and finances, including overseeing our financial statements, 
capital structure and internal controls. Those with a venture capital background also 
offer valuable stockholder perspectives.
Governance & 
Public Company 
Board
Directors with experience in corporate governance, such as service on boards and board 
committees, or as executives of other large, public companies, are familiar with the 
dynamics and operation of a board of directors and the impact that governance policies 
have on a company. This experience supports our goals of strong Board and 
management accountability, transparency, and protection of stockholder interests. 
Public company board experience also helps our directors identify challenges and risks 
we face as a public company, including oversight of strategic, operational, compliancerelated matters, and stockholder relations.
Emerging 
Technologies & 
Business Models
Experience in emerging technologies and business models is integral to our growth 
strategies given our unique business model and provides important insights as our 
business expands into new areas.
Marketing, 
Communications & 
Brand 
Management
Directors with experience in marketing, communications, and brand management offer 
guidance on our products directly marketed to consumers, important perspectives on 
expanding our market share, and communicating with our customers and other 
stakeholders.
Regulatory, Legal & 
Risk Management
Our business requires compliance with a variety of regulatory requirements in different 
jurisdictions. We face new regulatory matters and regulations as our business grows. 
We are also subject to multiple lawsuits. Directors with experience in governmental, 
public policy, legal, and risk management areas, including cybersecurity, help provide 
valuable insights and oversight for our Company.
Human Capital 
Management 
Experience
Our people are critical to our success. Directors with experience in organizational 
management, talent development, and developing values and culture in a large global 
workforce provide key insights. Human capital management experience also assists our 
Board in overseeing executive and employee compensation, development, and 
engagement.
Diversity
Directors with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives improve the dialogue 
and decision-making in the board room and contribute to overall Board effectiveness. In 
the director biographies below, this icon indicates gender or ethnic diversity.

Our Board believes that having a diverse mix of directors with complementary qualifications, expertise and attributes is 
essential to meeting its oversight responsibility. The table below reflects certain diversity information based on selfidentification by each director.
Board Diversity Matrix (as of May 14, 2024)
Gender Identity
Demographic Background
Male
Female
NonBinary
Did not 
disclose
African 
American 
or Black
Hispanic 
or Latinx
Asian
Native 
American 
or Alaskan 
Native
Native 
Hawaiian 
or Other 
Pacific 
Islander
White
Two or 
more races 
ethnicities
LGBTQ+
Did not 
disclose
Burgess
Coxe
Dabiri
Drell
Huang
Hudson
Jones
Lora
Neal
Seawell
Shah
Stevens
The NCGC evaluates candidates proposed by stockholders using the same criteria as it uses for other candidates. 
Stockholders seeking to recommend a prospective nominee should follow the instructions under Stockholder 
Communications with the Board of Directors below. Stockholder submissions must include the full name of the proposed 
nominee, a description of the proposed nominee’s business experience for at least the previous five years, complete 
biographical information, a description of the proposed nominee’s qualifications as a director, and a representation that 
the nominating stockholder is a beneficial or record owner of our stock. Any such submission must be accompanied by 
the written consent of the proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. 
Proxy Access
Our Board has voluntarily adopted proxy access. As a result, we will include in our proxy statement information regarding 
the greater of (i) up to two director candidates or (ii) up to 20% of the number of directors in office on the last day that a 
submission may be delivered, if nominated by a stockholder (or group of up to 20 stockholders) owning at least 3% of the 
voting power of our outstanding capital stock for at least three continuous years. The stockholder(s) must provide timely 
written notice of such nomination and the stockholder(s) and nominee must satisfy the other requirements specified in 
our Bylaws. This summary of our proxy access rules is not intended to be complete and is subject to limitations set forth 
in our Bylaws and Corporate Governance Policies, both of which are available on the Investor Relations section of our 
website at www.nvidia.com. Stockholders are advised to review these documents, which contain the requirements for 
director nominations. The NCGC did not receive any stockholder nominations during Fiscal 2024.

Our Director Nominees 
The biographies below include information, as of the date of this proxy statement, regarding the particular experience, 
qualifications, attributes or skills of each director, relative to the skills matrix above, that led the NCGC and Board to 
believe that he or she should continue to serve on the Board. 
ROBERT K. BURGESS
Robert K. Burgess has served as an independent investor and 
board member to technology companies since 2005. He was 
chief executive officer from 1996 to 2005 of Macromedia, Inc., a 
provider of internet and multimedia software, which was acquired 
by Adobe Systems Incorporated; he also served from 1996 to 
2005 on its board of directors, as chairman of its board of 
directors from 1998 to 2005 and as executive chairman for his 
final year. Previously, he held key executive positions from 1984 
to 1991 at Silicon Graphics, Inc. (SGI), a graphics and computing 
company; from 1991 to 1995, served as chief executive officer 
and a board member of Alias Research, Inc., a publicly traded 3D 
software company, until its acquisition by SGI; and resumed 
executive positions at SGI during 1996. Mr. Burgess was a 
director of Adobe from 2005 to 2019 and of Rogers 
Communications Inc., a communications and media company, 
from 2016 to 2019. He holds a BCom degree from McMaster 
University.
Mr. Burgess brings to the Board senior management and operating 
experience and expertise in the areas of financial and risk 
management. He has been in the computer graphics industry since 
1984. He has a broad understanding of the roles and 
responsibilities of a corporate board and provides valuable insight 
on a range of issues in the technology industry.
Independent Consultant
Age: 66
Director Since: 2011
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience
TENCH COXE
Tench Coxe was a managing director of Sutter Hill Ventures, a 
venture capital investment firm, from 1989 to 2020, where he 
focused on investments in the IT sector. Prior to joining Sutter 
Hill Ventures in 1987, he was director of marketing and MIS at 
Digital Communication Associates. He serves on the board of 
directors of Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc., an 
institutional money management firm. He was a director of 
Mattersight Corp., a customer loyalty software firm, from 2000 
to 2018. Mr. Coxe holds a BA degree in Economics from 
Dartmouth College and an MBA degree from Harvard Business 
School.
Mr. Coxe brings to the Board expertise in financial and transactional 
analysis and provides valuable perspectives on corporate strategy 
and emerging technology trends. His significant financial 
community experience gives the Board an understanding of the 
methods by which companies can increase value for their 
stockholders.
Former Managing Director, 
Sutter Hill Ventures
Age: 66
Director Since: 1993
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards:
Artisan Partners Asset 
Management Inc. (since 
1995)
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience 

JOHN O. DABIRI
John O. Dabiri is the Centennial Professor of Aeronautics and 
Mechanical Engineering at the California Institute of Technology. 
He is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "Genius Grant," 
the National Science Foundation Alan T. Waterman Award, and 
the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers. 
He heads the Dabiri Lab, which conducts research at the 
intersections of fluid mechanics, energy and environment, and 
biology. From 2015 to 2019, he served as a Professor of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering and of Mechanical Engineering at 
Stanford University, where he was recognized with the Eugene L. 
Grant Award for Excellence in Teaching. From 2005 to 2015, he 
was a Professor of Aeronautics and Bioengineering at the 
California Institute of Technology, during which time he also 
served as Director of the Center for Bioinspired Wind Energy, 
Chair of the Faculty, and Dean of Students. Dr. Dabiri is a Fellow 
of the American Physical Society, where he previously served as 
Chair of the Division of Fluid Dynamics. He serves on President 
Biden's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) 
and Energy Secretary Granholm's Energy Advisory Board (SEAB). 
He also serves on the Board of Trustees of the Gordon and Betty 
Moore Foundation and previously served as a member of the 
National Academies’ Committee on Science, Technology, and 
Law. Dr. Dabiri holds a PhD degree in Bioengineering and an MS 
degree 
Aeronautics 
from 
the 
California 
Institute 
Technology, and a BSE degree summa cum laude in Mechanical 
and Aerospace Engineering from Princeton University. 
Dr. Dabiri brings to the Board a versatile research background and 
cutting-edge expertise in various engineering fields, along with a 
proven record of successful innovation.
Centennial Professor of 
Aeronautics and 
Mechanical Engineering, 
California Institute of 
Technology
Age: 44
Director Since: 2020
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Industry & Technical
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Diversity
PERSIS S. DRELL
Persis S. Drell is a Professor of Materials Science and 
Engineering and Professor of Physics of Stanford University. Dr. 
Drell has been on the faculty at Stanford since 2002 and was the 
Dean of the Stanford School of Engineering from 2014 to 2017 
and the Provost of Stanford University from 2017 to 2023. She 
also served as the Director of SLAC from 2007 to 2012. Dr. Drell 
is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and is a fellow of the 
American Physical Society and a fellow of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science. She has been the 
recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship and a National Science 
Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award. Dr. Drell 
holds a PhD from the University of California, Berkeley and an AB 
degree in Mathematics and Physics from Wellesley College.
An accomplished researcher and educator, Dr. Drell brings to the 
Board expert leadership in guiding innovation in science and 
technology.
Professor of Materials 
Science and Engineering and 
Physics, and Former Provost, 
Stanford University
Age: 68
Director Since: 2015
Committees: NCGC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity

JEN-HSUN HUANG
Jen-Hsun Huang founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served since its 
inception as president, chief executive officer, and a member of 
the board of directors. 
Since its founding, NVIDIA has pioneered accelerated computing. 
The company’s invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked the growth 
of the PC gaming market, redefined computer graphics, and 
ignited the era of modern AI. NVIDIA is now driving the platform 
shift of accelerated computing and generative AI, transforming 
the world's largest industries and profoundly impacting society. 
Mr. Huang has been elected to the National Academy of 
Engineering and is a recipient of the Semiconductor Industry 
Association’s highest honor, the Robert N. Noyce Award; the IEEE 
Founder’s Medal; the Dr. Morris Chang Exemplary Leadership 
Award; and honorary doctorate degrees from Taiwan’s National 
Chiao Tung University, National Taiwan University, and Oregon 
State University. He has been named the world’s best CEO by 
Fortune, the Economist, and Brand Finance, as well as one of 
TIME magazine’s 100 most influential people. 
Prior to founding NVIDIA, Mr. Huang worked at LSI Logic, a 
semiconductor and software company, and Advanced Micro 
Devices, a global semiconductor company. He holds a BSEE 
degree from Oregon State University and an MSEE degree from 
Stanford University.
Mr. Huang is one of the technology industry’s most respected 
executives, having taken NVIDIA from a startup to a world leader in 
accelerated computing. Under his guidance, NVIDIA has compiled a 
record of consistent innovation and sharp execution, marked by 
products that have gained strong market share.
President and Chief 
Executive Officer, NVIDIA 
Corporation
Age: 61
Director Since: 1993
Committees: None
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity
DAWN HUDSON
Dawn Hudson serves on the boards of various companies. From 
2014 to 2018, Ms. Hudson served as Chief Marketing Officer for 
the National Football League. Previously, she served from 2009 
to 2014 as vice chairman of The Parthenon Group, an advisory 
firm focused on strategy consulting. She was president and chief 
executive officer of Pepsi-Cola North America, the beverage 
division of PepsiCo, Inc. for the U.S. and Canada, from 2005 to 
2007 and president from 2002, and simultaneously served as 
chief executive officer of the foodservice division of PepsiCo, Inc. 
from 2005 to 2007. Previously, she spent 13 years in marketing, 
advertising and branding strategy, holding leadership positions at 
major agencies, such as D’Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles and 
Omnicom Group Inc. Ms. Hudson currently serves on the board 
of directors of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., an 
advertising holding company, and a private skincare company. 
She was a director of P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc., a restaurant 
chain, from 2010 to 2012; of Allergan, Inc., a biopharmaceutical 
company, from 2008 to 2014; of Lowes Companies, Inc., a home 
improvement retailer, from 2001 to 2015; of Amplify Snack 
Brands, Inc., a snack food company, from 2014 to 2018; and of 
Modern Times Group MTG AB, a gaming company, from 2020 to 
2023. She holds a BA degree in English from Dartmouth College. 
Ms. Hudson brings to the board experience in executive leadership. 
As a longtime marketing executive, she has valuable expertise and 
insights in leveraging brands, brand development and consumer 
behavior. She also has considerable corporate governance 
experience, gained from more than a decade of serving on the 
boards of public companies. 
Former Chief Marketing 
Officer, National Football 
League
Age: 66
Director Since: 2013
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
The Interpublic Group of 
Companies, Inc. (since 
2011)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience 
Diversity

HARVEY C. JONES
Harvey C. Jones has been the managing partner of Square Wave 
Ventures, a private investment firm, since 2004. Mr. Jones has 
been an entrepreneur, high technology executive, and active 
venture investor for over 30 years. In 1981, he co-founded Daisy 
Systems 
Corp., 
computer-aided 
engineering 
company, 
ultimately serving as its president and chief executive officer 
until 1987. Between 1987 and 1998, he led Synopsys, Inc., a 
major electronic design automation company, serving as its chief 
executive officer for seven years and then as executive chairman. 
In 1997, Mr. Jones co-founded Tensilica Inc., a privately held 
technology IP company that developed and licensed high 
performance embedded processing cores. He served as 
chairman of the Tensilica board of directors from inception 
through its 2013 acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. He 
was a director of Tintri Inc., a company that built data storage 
solutions for virtual and cloud environments, from 2014 until 
2018. Mr. Jones holds a BS degree in Mathematics and 
Computer Sciences from Georgetown University and an MS 
degree in Management from Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. 
Mr. Jones brings to the board an executive management 
background, an understanding of semiconductor technologies and 
complex system design. He provides valuable insight into 
innovation strategies, research and development efforts, as well as 
management and development of our technical employees. His 
significant financial community experience gives the Board an 
understanding of the methods by which companies can increase 
value for their stockholders.
Managing Partner, Square 
Wave Ventures
Age: 71
Director Since: 1993
Committees: AC, CC, NCGC *
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
* Mr. Jones will serve on the CC until the 2024 Meeting and start to serve on the AC after the 2024 Meeting.
MELISSA B. LORA
Melissa B. Lora has served in several senior executive roles over 
her 31-year career at Taco Bell Corp., a subsidiary of Yum! Brands, 
Inc., one of the world’s largest restaurant companies, including as 
President of Taco Bell International at her retirement in 2018 and 
Global Chief Financial and Development Officer and Chief 
Financial and Development Officer at Taco Bell Corp. Ms. Lora 
served on the board of directors of KB Home, a homebuilding 
company, from 2004 to April 2024, and was a lead independent 
director thereof from 2016. She has served on the board of 
directors of Conagra Brands, Inc., a consumer packaged goods 
holding company, since 2019 and is the chair of the audit & 
finance committee. Ms. Lora previously served on the board of 
directors of MGIC Investment Corporation from 2018 to 2022. 
Ms. Lora holds a BS degree in Finance from California State 
University-Long 
Beach 
and 
MBA 
degree 
emphasizing 
Corporate Finance from the University of Southern California.
Ms. Lora brings to the Board senior management and operating 
experience as well as finance experience gained in a large corporate 
setting. She also has considerable corporate governance 
experience, gained from over two decades of serving on the boards 
of public companies in a variety of industries. 
Former President, Taco Bell 
International
Age: 61
Director Since: 2023
Committees: AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
Conagra Brands, Inc. 
(since 2019)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity

STEPHEN C. NEAL
Stephen C. Neal serves as Chairman Emeritus and Senior Counsel 
of the law firm Cooley LLP, where he was also Chief Executive 
Officer from 2001 until 2008. In addition to his extensive 
experience as a trial lawyer on a broad range of corporate issues, 
Mr. Neal has represented and advised numerous boards of 
directors, special committees of boards, and individual directors on 
corporate governance and other legal matters. Prior to joining 
Cooley in 1995, Mr. Neal was a partner of the law firm Kirkland & 
Ellis LLP. Mr. Neal served on the board of directors of Levi Strauss 
& Co. from 2007 to 2021 and as Chairman from 2011 to 2021. Mr. 
Neal also is Chairman of the Oversight Board Trust, a perpetual 
Delaware special purpose trust. Previously, Mr. Neal served as 
Chairman of the boards of the William and Flora Hewlett 
Foundation and of the Monterey Bay Aquarium. Mr. Neal holds an 
AB degree from Harvard University and a JD degree from Stanford 
Law School.
Mr. Neal brings to the Board deep knowledge and broad experience in 
corporate governance as well as his perspectives drawn from 
advising many companies throughout his career. 
Chairman Emeritus and 
Senior Counsel, Cooley LLP
Age: 75
Director Since: 2019
Committees: NCGC
Lead Director 
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital 
Management Experience
A. BROOKE SEAWELL
A. Brooke Seawell has served since 2005 as a venture partner at 
New Enterprise Associates, and was a partner from 2000 to 2005 
at Technology Crossover Ventures. He was executive vice 
president from 1997 to 1998 at NetDynamics, Inc., an application 
server 
software 
company, 
which 
was 
acquired 
Sun 
Microsystems, Inc. He was senior vice president and chief 
financial officer from 1991 to 1997 of Synopsys, Inc., an 
electronic design automation software company. He serves on 
the board of directors of Tenable Holdings, Inc., a cybersecurity 
company, and several privately held companies. Mr. Seawell 
served on the board of directors of Glu Mobile, Inc., a publisher of 
mobile games, from 2006 to 2014, of Informatica Corp., a data 
integration software company, from 1997 to 2015, of Tableau 
Software, Inc., a business intelligence software company, from 
2011 to 2019, and of Eargo, Inc., a medical device company, from 
2020 to 2022. He also previously served as a member of the 
Stanford University Athletic Board and on the Management 
Board of the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Mr. Seawell 
holds a BA degree in Economics and an MBA degree in Finance 
from Stanford University.
Mr. Seawell brings to the Board operational expertise and senior 
management experience, including knowledge of the complex 
issues facing public companies, and a deep understanding of 
accounting principles and financial reporting. His significant 
financial community experience gives the Board an understanding 
of the methods by which companies can increase value for their 
stockholders.
Venture Partner, New 
Enterprise Associates
Age: 76
Director Since: 1997
Committees: AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
Tenable Holdings, Inc. 
(since 2017)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience

AARTI SHAH
Aarti Shah serves on the boards of various companies and nonprofit organizations. Dr. Shah worked at Eli Lilly and Company for 
27.5 years and served in several functional and business 
leadership roles, most recently as senior vice president and chief 
information and digital officer, as well as senior statistician, 
research scientist, vice president for biometrics, and global brand 
development leader in Lilly’s Bio-Medicines business unit. Dr. 
Shah has served on the board of Sandoz International GmbH, a 
pharmaceutical company, since 2023. Dr. Shah has served on 
the board of trustees of Northwestern Mutual since 2020. She 
also serves as a trustee of the non-profit organization, Shrimad 
Rajchandra Love & Care USA. She served on the Indianapolis 
Public Library Foundation board for the full term of 9 years and 
on the Center for Interfaith Cooperation for the full term of 4 
years. Dr. Shah received her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 
Statistics and Mathematics in India before completing her PhD in 
Applied Statistics from the University of California, Riverside. 
Dr. Shah brings to the Board executive leadership and senior 
operating experience. Additionally she brings expertise in drug 
development and technical expertise in the areas of information 
technology, cybersecurity, advanced analytics, data sciences, and 
digital health.
Former Senior Vice President 
& Chief Information and 
Digital Officer, Eli Lilly and 
Company
Age: 59
Director Since: 2020
Committees: AC, CC *
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
Sandoz International 
GmbH
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity
* Dr. Shah will start to serve on the CC after the 2024 Meeting.
MARK A. STEVENS
Mark A. Stevens has been the managing partner of S-Cubed 
Capital, a private family office investment firm, since 2012. He 
was a managing partner from 1993 to 2011 of Sequoia Capital, a 
venture capital investment firm, where he had been an associate 
for the preceding four years. Previously, he held technical sales 
and marketing positions at Intel Corporation, and was a member 
of the technical staff at Hughes Aircraft Co. Mr. Stevens is a 
Trustee of the University of Southern California. He was a 
director of Quantenna Communications, Inc., a provider of Wi-Fi 
solutions, from 2016 until 2019. Mr. Stevens holds a BSEE 
degree, a BA degree in Economics and an MS degree in Computer 
Engineering from the University of Southern California, and an 
MBA degree from Harvard Business School.
Mr. Stevens brings to the Board a deep understanding of the 
technology industry, and the drivers of structural change and highgrowth opportunities. He provides valuable insight regarding 
corporate strategy development and the analysis of acquisitions 
and divestitures. His significant financial community experience 
gives the Board an understanding of the methods by which 
companies can increase value for their stockholders.
Managing Partner, S-Cubed 
Capital
Age: 64
Director Since: 2008
(previously served 
1993-2006)
Committees: AC, NCGC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models

Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors
Nasdaq rules and our Corporate Governance Policies (as further described below) require that a majority of our directors 
not have a relationship that would interfere with their exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their 
responsibilities and that they meet any other qualification requirements required by the SEC and Nasdaq. 
Dr. Drell served as Provost of Stanford University from 2017 to 2023. NVIDIA has entered into transactions, relationships, 
or arrangements during the past three fiscal years with Stanford University for the support of research and activities 
related to NVIDIA’s industry and line of business. The amount that NVIDIA paid in each of the last three fiscal years to 
Stanford University, and the amount received in each fiscal year by NVIDIA from Stanford University, did not, in any of the 
previous three fiscal years, exceed the greater of $200,000 or 1% of either entity’s consolidated gross revenues.
After considering the above arrangements, and all other relevant relationships and transactions, our Board determined 
that, except for Mr. Huang, all of our directors are “independent” as defined by Nasdaq’s rules and regulations. The Board 
also determined that all members of our AC, CC, and NCGC are independent under applicable Nasdaq listing standards, 
and that each of Mr. Seawell and Ms. Lora of the AC, and Mr. Jones who will join the AC after the Annual Meeting, are 
“audit committee financial experts” as defined under applicable SEC rules.
Board Leadership Structure
Our Board ensures that each member has an equal voice in the affairs and the management of NVIDIA by having an 
independent Lead Director, rather than a chairperson, which the Board believes best serves our stockholders. Our Lead 
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and critical to our effective corporate governance. The independent 
directors consider the role and designation of the person to serve as Lead Director on an annual basis. The Board 
recognizes that different board leadership structures may be appropriate under different circumstances and its annual 
review includes consideration of whether having a Lead Director continues to best meet NVIDIA’s evolving needs and 
serves in the best interest of its stockholders. 
Our Board believes its current leadership structure is appropriate because the active involvement of each of our 
independent directors, combined with the qualifications, significant responsibilities, and strong oversight by our Lead 
Director, provide balance on the Board and promote independent oversight of our management and affairs. Our Board 
also believes its current leadership structure is appropriate because it effectively allocates authority, responsibility, and 
oversight between management and our independent directors and it provides the right foundation to pursue the 
Company’s strategic and operational objectives, particularly in light of the evolution of our business and operating 
environment. Our CEO has primary responsibility for the operational leadership and strategic direction of the Company, 
and the Lead Director facilitates our Board’s independent oversight of management, promotes communication between 
management and our Board, and supports our Board’s consideration of key governance matters. This arrangement 
promotes open dialogue among the Board, including discussions of the independent directors during quarterly executive 
sessions without the presence of our CEO, which are led by our Lead Director. We believe that our current structure best 
serves stockholders, without the need to appoint a person to serve as chairperson of the Board.
Under our corporate governance policies, the Board may select a chairperson in its discretion, but, if it does not, a Lead 
Director shall be designated annually by a majority of the independent directors and identified in the Company’s proxy 
statement. These policies help to ensure a robust independent leadership structure on our Board. 
While the Board has the discretion to consider other leadership structures, including having the Lead Director (or 
chairperson, if any) and CEO roles filled by a single individual, it would only consider a change if it best aligned with the 
interests of our stockholders, management, and the Board, and it complied with applicable laws and regulations. If in the 
future our CEO were to take a leadership position on the Board, such as chairperson, we expect that the Board would 
continue to appoint an independent Lead Director to maintain a balanced and strong leadership structure and otherwise 
represent the Board independently from the Company’s management team. Any changes to the Board’s leadership 
structure would take into account stockholder views, including through our ongoing stockholder outreach, and would be 
communicated to stockholders on our Investor Relations website and in our proxy statement.
Mr. Neal has served as our Lead Director since 2023 and currently serves as the Chairperson of the NCGC. Our Lead 
Director may provide input on the design of the Board as requested by the NCGC. In his role as NCGC Chairperson, our 
Lead Director will continue to lead discussions, provide input, and oversee the design of the Board itself.
Mr. Neal has served as a director since 2019 and has extensive experience as a trial lawyer and has advised numerous 
companies, boards of directors, and individuals on corporate governance and legal matters. He has also helped clients 
manage internal and government investigations. Mr. Neal also has executive experience from his time serving as Cooley 
LLP’s CEO, and board and chairman experience from serving on the Levi Strauss & Co. board of directors. The Board 
believes Mr. Neal’s experience, breadth of knowledge, and contributions to the Board position him well to provide strong 
leadership and oversight of ongoing Board matters and to contribute valuable insight with respect to the Company’s 
business. The Board believes that Mr. Neal is highly qualified to assist the Board in overseeing the identification, 

assessment, and management of the Company’s exposure to various risks as a result of his extensive risk management, 
legal, and executive experience. The Board believes that Mr. Neal will be able to provide leadership and help guide the 
Board’s independent oversight of the Company’s risk exposures through his role as Lead Director. Further information on 
the Board’s oversight of risk management is detailed below under Role of the Board in Risk Oversight.
Our Lead Director has significant responsibilities, which are set forth in our Corporate Governance Policies, and include 
the duties listed below.
Duties of Our Lead Director
Determining an appropriate schedule of Board meetings and seeking to ensure that the 
independent members of the Board can perform their duties responsibly while not 
interfering with the flow of our operations
Working with the CEO, and seeking input from other directors and relevant 
management, as to the preparation of the agendas for Board meetings
Advising the CEO on a regular basis as to the quality, quantity, and timeliness of the 
flow of information requested by the Board from our management with the goal of 
providing what is necessary for the independent members of the Board to effectively 
and responsibly perform their duties, and, although our management is responsible for 
the preparation of materials for the Board, the Lead Director may specifically request 
the inclusion of certain material
Coordinating, developing the agenda for, and moderating executive sessions of the 
independent members of the Board and acting as principal liaison between them and 
the CEO on sensitive issues
Presiding over Board meetings when the CEO is not present
Convening meetings of the independent directors, as necessary or appropriate
Being available to engage with stockholders, as necessary or appropriate
Performing such other duties as the Board may determine from time to time
Our Lead Director may require Board consideration of risk matters, including adding them to board agendas or as topics 
for executive sessions of the independent members of the Board. As discussed further below, the Board maintains 
oversight of strategic risks for the Company and works with the CEO to address risk management matters.
In addition, our Lead Director may represent the Board in communications with stockholders and other stakeholders. The 
Lead Director makes themself available for consultation with major stockholders pursuant to our Corporate Governance 
Policies. As Lead Director, Mr. Neal has participated in our annual stockholder outreach meetings and we expect this 
practice to continue.

Committees of the Board of Directors
The Board has three committees: an AC, a CC, and a NCGC. Each of these committees operates under a written charter, 
which may be viewed under Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com.
Committee assignments are determined based on background and the expertise which individual directors can bring to a 
committee. Our Board believes regular committee rotations are a good corporate governance practice which introduces 
diverse perspectives and ideas, more fully informs its members regarding the full scope of the Board and our activities, 
and benefits each committee and the Board as a whole. The composition and functions of our committees are set forth 
below. 
Current Members
Members as of our 2024 Meeting
A. Brooke Seawell (Chairperson)
Melissa B. Lora
Michael G. McCaffery
Mark L. Perry
Aarti Shah
Mark A. Stevens
A. Brooke Seawell (Chairperson)
Harvey C. Jones
Melissa B. Lora
Aarti Shah
Mark A. Stevens
In Fiscal 2024, the AC met four times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: capitalization review and 
strategy, tax, treasury, internal audit, information security, and insurance reviews.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Oversees our corporate accounting and financial reporting process;
Oversees our internal audit function;
Determines and approves the engagement, retention, and termination of the independent registered public 
accounting firm;
Evaluates the performance of and assesses the qualifications of our independent registered public 
accounting firm;
Reviews and approves the retention of the independent registered public accounting firm for permissible 
audit and non-audit services;
Confers with management and our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the results of 
the annual audit, our quarterly financial statements and results, and the effectiveness of internal control 
over financial reporting, including those regarding information security;
Reviews the financial statements to be included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual report on 
Form 10-K;
Reviews earnings press releases and the substance of financial information and outlook provided to 
investors and analysts on earnings calls;
Adopts and maintains policies regarding preapproval of employment of individuals employed or formerly 
employed by auditors and engaged on our account;
Prepares the report required to be included by SEC rules in our annual proxy statement or Form 10-K; 
Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints we receive regarding 
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and the confidential and anonymous 
submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters; 
Oversees risks related to financial reporting and exposures, internal audit functions, regulatory, and 
accounting policies; and
Reviews and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies and 
practices and the internal controls regarding information security risks

Current Members
Members as of our 2024 Meeting
Dawn Hudson (Chairperson)
Robert K. Burgess 
Tench Coxe
John O. Dabiri
Harvey C. Jones
Dawn Hudson (Chairperson)
Robert K. Burgess 
Tench Coxe
John O. Dabiri
Aarti Shah
In Fiscal 2024, the CC met four times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: executive, employee, and 
director compensation, review of benefits, wellness and retirement programs, regulatory updates related to 
compensation, and review of pay transparency, human capital management, and employee demographics, including 
diversity.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Reviews and approves our overall compensation strategy and policies;
Reviews and recommends to the Board the compensation of our Board members;
Reviews and approves the compensation and other terms of employment of Mr. Huang and other executive 
officers;
Reviews and approves corporate performance goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of our 
executive officers and other senior management;
Reviews and approves the disclosure contained in CD&A and for inclusion in the proxy statement and 
Form 10-K;
Administers our stock purchase plans, variable compensation plans, and other similar programs; 
Oversees our human capital management practices including policies related to diversity, inclusion, and 
belonging;
Assesses and monitors whether our compensation policies and programs have the potential to create 
material risks; and
Oversees risks related to compensation plans, programs and policies, and human capital management
NCGC
Current Members
Members as of our 2024 Meeting
Stephen C. Neal (Chairperson)
Persis S. Drell 
Harvey C. Jones
Mark L. Perry
Mark A. Stevens
Stephen C. Neal (Chairperson)
Persis S. Drell 
Harvey C. Jones
Mark A. Stevens
In Fiscal 2024, the NCGC met three times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: consideration of 
Board recruiting matters and current Board member backgrounds and skills, trade compliance and regulatory 
matters, the Company’s CS efforts, corporate governance matters, and addressing stockholder concerns.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Identifies, reviews, and evaluates candidates to serve as directors;
Recommends candidates for election to our Board;
Makes recommendations to the Board regarding committee membership and chairpersons;
Assesses the performance of the Board and its committees;
Reviews and assesses our corporate governance principles and practices;
Monitors changes in corporate governance practices and rules and regulations;
Approves related party transactions;
Reviews and assesses our CS strategy, risks, and opportunities periodically, including related programs and 
initiatives; 
Oversees and reviews policies and practices on trade compliance, regulatory matters, and related risks;
Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints we receive regarding 
violations of our Code of Conduct; 
Monitors the effectiveness of our anonymous tip process; and
Oversees the Company’s policies, practices, and investigation procedures in connection with the 
Company’s compliance program 

Role of the Board in Risk Oversight
The Board oversees risk management at NVIDIA and delegates oversight of appropriate topics to its committees. The 
oversight responsibility of our Board and its committees is enabled by management reporting processes, including our 
ERM process, that are designed to provide visibility to our Board about the identification, assessment, and management 
of critical risks and management’s risk mitigation strategies. Our Board retains direct oversight of strategic risks to 
NVIDIA and other risk areas not delegated to one of its committees. 
RISK OVERSIGHT AT NVIDIA
Board of Directors
Oversees management of major risks
ü Business Model
ü Strategic Execution
ü Product Quality and Safety
ü Operational, including Supply Chain 
and Sourcing
ü Regulatory, Public Policy, Legal, 
Intellectual Property, and 
Compliance
ü Financial and Macroeconomic
ü Information Security, including 
Cybersecurity
ü Brand and Reputation
ü Business Continuity
ü Corporate Development and 
Acquisitions
ü Management Development
ü Enterprise Resource Planning
NCGC
ü Financial statement and earnings 
materials integrity and reporting
ü Financial risk exposures, including 
investments, cash management, and 
foreign exchange management
ü Disclosure controls and procedures
ü Information security and 
cybersecurity policies and practices 
and the internal controls regarding 
information security risks
ü Oversees the performance of the 
internal audit function, including 
auditor functions, performance, and 
independence
ü Accounting and audit principles and 
policies, and regulatory and 
accounting initiatives
ü Legal and regulatory compliance, 
particularly as related to the above 
matters
 ü Compensation policies, plans, 
practices and programs for 
directors, executives, and 
employees
ü Human capital management, 
including recruiting, retention, 
development, diversity, inclusion, 
and belonging
ü Governance structure, processes and 
policies, including as it relates to 
regulatory changes and other 
developments
ü Stockholder concerns, and policies 
and procedures for communication
ü Compliance program and 
effectiveness of our anonymous tip 
process
ü Corporate sustainability, including 
environmental, social, and corporate 
governance matters
ü Trade compliance and non-financial 
regulatory matters
ü Board and committee composition 
and refreshment, and board 
performance assessment
ü Related party transactions
ü Policies and practices related to 
government relations, public policy, 
and related expenditures
Management
Management identifies, evaluates, and mitigates business risks and reports to the Board on them
Internal Audit
Provides independent assurance on design and effectiveness of internal controls and governance processes
A review of risk and risk management by our Board, including strategic and information security matters, is integral to 
NVIDIA’s long-term objectives, and by retaining oversight of risks at the Board level, we believe we have established a 
process allowing for thorough assessment of these matters. Given the importance of topics like information security to 
our business, which includes cybersecurity, the Board has determined that these matters should remain under the full 
Board’s oversight. The AC also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies 
and practices and the internal controls regarding information security risks. The AC receives regular information security 
updates from management, including our Chief Security Officer and members of our security team. The Board also 
receives annual reports on information security matters from our Chief Security Officer and members of our security 
team.
The involvement of our Board committees is designed to increase the effectiveness of the Board's risk oversight by 
allocating authority and responsibility, as set forth in committee charters, to the particular committee that is best 
equipped to provide guidance and oversight regarding the operations, issues and risks presented, with escalation to the 
full Board as appropriate. The AC also meets in executive session with the leaders of our key control functions, which 
ensures that Board members have direct access to these teams, and that these teams are appropriately staffed and 
resourced. Committee chairpersons provide regular reports to the full Board regarding matters reviewed by their 

committees, including key risks, and the committees work together with the full Board to facilitate the receipt of the 
information deemed necessary to fulfill their oversight responsibilities over our risk management activities. Our Board 
believes that our Board leadership structure helps to facilitate its oversight of risk at the Company because its strong 
independent Lead Director and independent committees proactively provide oversight of and engage with management 
on the Company’s key risks. For further discussion, please see Board Leadership Structure above.
Each year management leads an ERM process, which includes a formal assessment of the Company’s risk environment 
and facilitates the provision of regular reports to senior management, including the CEO, regarding the actions, 
strategies, processes, controls, and procedures specific to managing, mitigating, and anticipating significant risks. The 
ERM process is overseen and reviewed by the Board and the AC on an annual basis. Our ERM process identifies, assesses, 
and manages the Company’s most significant risks and uncertainties that could materially impact the long-term health of 
the Company or prevent the achievement of strategic objectives. 
Our ERM team works with senior management, as well as our Lead Director and committee chairpersons, to identify 
major risks to the Company. We do not have a member of senior management with the title of Chief Compliance Officer. 
Instead, our ERM process and action plan are reviewed by our CEO and other NEOs who report directly to our CEO, other 
members of senior management, and our internal audit team. This full team of leaders is responsible for managing key 
risks specific to their functional areas. 
The ERM process facilitates the incorporation of risk assessment and evaluation into the strategic planning process. 
Because risks are considered in conjunction with the Company’s operations and strategies, including long-term 
strategies, risks are identified and evaluated across different timeframes, including in the short-, intermediate-, and longterm, depending on the specific risk. In evaluating top risks, the Board and management consider short-, intermediate-, 
and long-term potential impacts on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations, which involves 
looking at the internal and external environment when evaluating risks, risk amplifiers, and emerging trends, and they 
consider the risk horizon as part of prioritizing the Company’s risk mitigation efforts. The Company’s significant risks 
identified through the ERM process are reviewed periodically, but at least annually with the Board and AC, including the 
potential impact and likelihood of the risks materializing over the relevant timeframe, future threats and trends, and the 
actions, strategies, processes, controls, and procedures used or to be implemented to manage and mitigate the risks. As 
a part of this annual process, the Board provides feedback on risk management strategies, as well as the ERM process. 
The Board and its committees receive updates, as appropriate, during the year from management regarding the risk 
management processes, operations and organization, the mitigation of key existing and emerging risks and, as 
appropriate, provide feedback to address these matters, including those related to cybersecurity, trade compliance, and 
strategy. Management’s regular attendance at Board and committee meetings provides Board members direct access to 
our management team and the opportunity for the Board to receive updates on our risk exposure. Further, the agendas 
for each Board meeting, as determined by our CEO and Lead Director, are developed and adjusted throughout the year, to 
adapt to any emerging risks or key topics.
The Company’s ERM process is designed so that the Board can respond to risks in a manner that closely aligns to the 
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. The ERM results are reviewed and considered by members of 
management who are responsible for our public reporting and the Board. Our public reports are prepared by 
management who participate in the ERM process, and are reviewed by the Board or its committees, as appropriate, and 
this process contributes to the effective functioning of our disclosure controls and procedures. Our risk oversight 
processes and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to appropriately identify potential risks for disclosure. 
The Board, each of its committees, and senior management have in the past and may continue to engage outside 
advisors, experts, and consultants, to help develop and analyze the Company’s risk management and mitigation efforts 
and associated controls and procedures, as well as to help the Company anticipate future threats and trends which could 
have an impact on our business.
Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors
The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Policies to ensure that the Board has the necessary authority and 
processes in place to review and evaluate our business operations as needed and to make decisions that are independent 
of our management. These policies include practices the Board follows with respect to its composition and selection, 
regular evaluations of the Board and its committees, Board meetings and involvement of senior management, senior 
management performance evaluation, and Board committees and compensation. These policies may be viewed under 
Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com.
Executive Sessions of the Board
As required under Nasdaq’s listing standards, our independent directors meet regularly in scheduled executive sessions at 
which only independent directors are present, as well as in sessions with the CEO. In Fiscal 2024, our independent 
directors met in both types of executive sessions at four of our scheduled quarterly Board meetings.

Director Attendance at Annual Meeting
We expect that our directors will attend each annual meeting, absent a valid reason. All Board members as of our 2023 
Meeting attended our 2023 Meeting.
Board Self-Assessments
The NCGC oversees an evaluation process, conducted at least annually, whereby outside legal counsel for NVIDIA 
interviews each director to obtain his or her evaluation of the Board as a whole, and of the committees on which he or she 
serves. The interviews solicit ideas from the directors about, among other things, improving the quality of Board and/or 
committee oversight effectiveness regarding strategic direction, financial and audit matters, executive compensation, 
acquisition activity, and other key matters. The interviews also focus on Board process and identifying specific issues 
which should be discussed in the future. After these evaluations are complete, our outside corporate counsel summarizes 
the results, reviews them with our Lead Director, and then submits the summary for discussion by the NCGC. 
In response to the evaluations conducted in Fiscal 2024, our Board determined to focus on competitive advantage, 
growth management, vertical initiatives, AI regulations, supply chain, management development and company culture, 
and geopolitical and regulatory risks. The Board also determined to continue to focus on the Board’s composition and 
process for Board refreshment.
Director Orientation and Continuing Education
The NCGC and our General Counsel are responsible for new director orientation and for administering or approving 
eligible director continuing education programs. Continuing education programs for directors may include a combination 
of internally developed materials and presentations, programs presented by third parties, and financial and administrative 
support for attendance at qualifying academic or other independent programs. 
Director Time Commitment and Outside Board Memberships
Our directors are expected to devote sufficient time to Board and committee duties and to understanding the Company’s 
business. The NCGC reviews the other commitments of potential Board candidates, and does so annually for existing 
Board members, to determine if this expectation can be met. In making this determination, the NCGC considers, among 
other factors, stakeholder guidelines regarding numerical limits on public company boards on which a director may sit. 
None of our directors serve on more than two public company boards (including NVIDIA), and none of our non-employee 
directors serve as a CEO or executive officer of a public company.
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
Our Corporate Governance Policies require each non-employee director to hold shares of our common stock with a total 
value equal to six times the annual cash retainer for Board service during the period in which he or she serves as a 
director (or six times his base salary, in the case of the CEO). The shares may include vested deferred stock, shares held 
in trust, and shares held by immediate family members, but unvested or unexercised equity awards do not count for 
purposes of this ownership calculation. Non-employee directors have five years after their Board appointment to reach 
the ownership threshold. Our stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align director interests with stockholder 
interests.
Each non-employee director and Mr. Huang currently meets or exceeds the stock ownership requirements, with the 
exception of Ms. Lora, who joined our Board in 2023 and has five years from joining the Board to reach the ownership 
threshold.
Hedging and Pledging Policy 
Under our Insider Trading Policy, our directors, executive officers, employees, and their designees may not hedge their 
ownership of NVIDIA stock, including but not limited to trading in options, puts, calls, or other derivative instruments 
related to NVIDIA stock or debt. Additionally, directors, executive officers, employees, and their designees may not 
purchase NVIDIA stock on margin, borrow against NVIDIA stock held in a margin account, or pledge NVIDIA stock as 
collateral for a loan. 
Senior Management Development
We believe in extensive leadership development. Our management structure ensures that over 60 senior managers work 
directly with our CEO to execute our corporate strategies. This approach results in strategic alignment, exposes leaders 
to a broad spectrum of corporate activities, and presents the Board with a pool of excellent candidates for future 
promotion. Our CEO also selects senior leaders to engage directly with the Board on key initiatives and provides periodic 
updates to our Board on management development.

Outside Advisors
The Board and each of its principal committees may retain outside advisors and consultants of their choosing at our 
expense. The Board need not obtain management’s consent to retain outside advisors. In addition, the principal 
committees need not obtain either the Board’s or management’s consent to retain outside advisors.
Code of Conduct
Our directors, executives, and employees are expected to conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity, ethics, 
and honesty. Our credibility and reputation depend upon their good judgment, ethical standards, and personal integrity. 
Our Code of Conduct applies to all executive officers, directors, and employees, including our principal executive officer, 
principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. The Financial Team Code of Conduct applies to our executive 
officers, directors, members of our finance department, and all employees involved in the preparation and review of 
externally-reported periodic financial reports, filings, and documents. We regularly review our Code of Conduct and 
related policies to ensure that they provide clear guidance to our directors, executives, and employees. We also regularly 
train our employees on our Code of Conduct and other policies.
The Code of Conduct and the Financial Team Code of Conduct may be viewed under Governance in the Investor Relations 
section of our website, at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to either code, or grant any waiver from a 
provision of either code to any executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the nature of the amendment or 
waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference 
into this or any other report we file with the SEC.
Corporate Hotline
We have established an independent corporate hotline to allow any employee, contractor, customer, or partner to 
confidentially and anonymously submit a complaint about any accounting, internal controls, auditing, Code of Conduct, or 
other matter of concern (unless prohibited by local privacy laws).
Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors
Stockholders who wish to communicate with the Board regarding nominations of directors or other matters may do so by 
sending 
electronic 
written 
communications 
addressed 
Timothy 
Teter, 
our 
Secretary, 
shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com. All stockholder communications we receive that are addressed to the Board will be 
compiled by our Secretary. If no particular director is named, letters will be forwarded, depending on the subject matter, 
to the chairperson of the AC, CC, or NCGC. Matters put forth by our stockholders will be reviewed by the NCGC, which 
will determine whether these matters should be presented to the Board. The NCGC will give serious consideration to all 
such matters and will make its determination in accordance with its charter and applicable laws.
Majority Vote Standard
Under our Bylaws, in an uncontested election, stockholders will be given the choice to cast votes FOR or AGAINST the 
election of directors or to ABSTAIN from such vote and shall not have the ability to cast any other vote with respect to 
such election of directors. A director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of the votes cast with 
respect to that director, meaning the number of shares voted FOR a director must exceed the number of votes cast 
AGAINST that director. If the votes cast FOR an incumbent director in a non-contested election do not exceed the 
number of AGAINST votes, such incumbent director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The NCGC 
or other committee that may be designated by the Board will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept 
or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on such committee’s 
recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale within 90 days from the date of certification of the 
election results. In making their decision, such committee and the Board will evaluate the best interests of the Company 
and its stockholders and shall consider all factors and information deemed relevant. The director who tenders his or her 
resignation will not participate in such committee’s recommendation or the Board’s decision.
In a contested election, in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, stockholders will 
be given the choice to cast FOR or WITHHOLD votes for the election of directors and shall not have the ability to cast any 
other vote with respect to such election of directors. Our directors will be elected by a plurality of the shares represented 
at any such meeting or by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors at that meeting. The directors receiving 
the greatest number of FOR votes will be elected.
In either case, abstentions and broker non-votes will each be counted as present for purposes of determining the 
presence of a quorum but will have no effect on the vote.
Stockholder Special Meeting Right
As part of our Board and management’s comprehensive review of current corporate governance practices, our Board 
adopted an amendment to our Bylaws in March 2024 to permit stockholders who own at least 15% of the voting power of 
all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the Company, and who have owned such shares continuously for at 

least one year, to request a special meeting of stockholders, provided that the stockholders satisfy the disclosure, timing 
and other requirements set forth in our Bylaws intended to ensure that stockholders receive adequate, timely, and 
accurate information in connection with a special meeting. Our Board believes that this special meeting right strikes an 
appropriate balance by ensuring that stockholders have a meaningful right to call a special meeting to act on 
extraordinary, pressing events, while also protecting the Company and its broader stockholder base against narrow and 
short-term interests.
Board Meeting Information
The Board met four times during Fiscal 2024, including meetings during which the Board discussed the strategic 
direction of NVIDIA, explored and discussed new business and strategic opportunities and the product roadmap, and 
other matters facing NVIDIA. We expect each Board member to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees 
on which he or she serves. Each Board member attended 75% or more of the applicable meetings of the Board and of 
each committee on which he or she served during Fiscal 2024.

Corporate Sustainability
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound 
CS principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. Our Board and management believe that environmental 
stewardship, social responsibility, and solid governance are important to our business strategy and long-term value 
creation. While the full Board has ultimate responsibility for CS matters that impact our business, each committee of the 
Board oversees CS matters across our business operations in the areas that align with their respective responsibilities. 
The NCGC is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our policies, issues, and reporting related to 
sustainability, including overall sustainability strategy, risks, and opportunities, and related programs and initiatives. Our 
CS team updates the NCGC at least semiannually on these topics, as well as pertinent regulations and stakeholder inputs, 
and gathers feedback from the NCGC on issues such as climate change, human rights, and diversity and inclusion. The CS 
team also reports on sustainability issues to the full Board annually.
In Fiscal 2024, we launched a Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee, or the CSSC, comprised of members of our 
executive leadership team. The CSSC is responsible for overseeing and providing input on our sustainability strategy and 
program. Feedback from the Board, the NCGC and CSSC, along with specific input from our executive team, helps to 
determine the focus and scope of our sustainability strategy and program.
The following sections provide an overview of our principles and practices. More information can be found on the 
Corporate Sustainability section of our website and in our annual Sustainability Report. Information contained on our 
website or in our annual Sustainability Report is not incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file with 
the SEC. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K for a discussion of risks and uncertainties we face related to 
CS.
Climate and Efficiency
We assess our carbon footprint across our product lifecycle and assess climate risks, including current and emerging 
regulations and market impacts. Improving performance and energy efficiency is a principal goal in each step of our 
research, development, and design processes. NVIDIA GPUs powered 24 of the top 30 systems on the November 2023 
Green500 list, including the No. 1 spot with the H100 GPU-based Henri system. Our Earth-2 initiative aims to harness AI 
and high-performance computing to unlock the potential of vast quantities of climate data to inform decision-making.
We commit to the following greenhouse gas emissions, or GHG emissions, reduction goals:
Scope 1 and 2: By the end of Fiscal 2025, and annually thereafter, we expect to achieve and maintain 100% 
renewable electricity for offices and data centers under our operational control. By delivering on this 
commitment, we aim to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with prevalent climate science standards. 
Scope 3: By the end of Fiscal 2026, we expect to engage manufacturing suppliers comprising at least 67% of 
NVIDIA’s scope 3 category 1 GHG emissions, with the goal of effecting supplier adoption of science-based 
targets.
Human Capital Management
We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our 
stakeholders. The CC provides oversight of the Company’s human capital management, including policies and strategies 
regarding recruiting, development, retention, diversity, inclusion, and belonging.
Recruitment, Development, and Retention
As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have 
been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted talent globally through our strong employer brand 
and differentiated hiring strategies for college, professional, and leadership talent. Our workforce is 83% technical and 
49% hold advanced degrees. Additionally, we have increased focus on diversity recruiting, resulting in an increase in 
global female hiring in each channel. Our own employees help to surface top talent, with over 40% of our new hires in 
Fiscal 2024 coming from employee referrals.
To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training courses, targeted 
development programs, mentoring and peer coaching and ongoing feedback. We offer tuition reimbursement programs 
to subsidize educational programs and advanced certifications. We implemented a career coaching service to provide 
one-on-one guidance to employees, and encourage internal job mobility. We have implemented specifically designed 
mentoring and development programs for women and employees from traditionally underrepresented groups to ensure 
widespread readiness for future advancement.
We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and 
stay. In Fiscal 2024, our overall turnover rate was 2.7%.

Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being
Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage employees to invest in the Company’s 
future. Employees receive equity, except where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our stock 
price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously aligning their interests with those of our stockholders.
We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees’ and their families’ physical health, well-being, and financial 
health. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on the needs of our Community Resource Groups and 
continuing our support for parents, both new birth parents and those who wish to become parents.
Our support has been enhanced during times of crisis, such as war or economic volatility, to take care of our existing 
team of world-class talent and their families.
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that supports all 
employees.
When recruiting for new talent or developing our current employees, we strive to build a diverse talent pipeline that 
includes those underrepresented in the technology field, including women, Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latino 
candidates.
To this end, we have been:
Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving historically underrepresented communities;
Embedding dedicated recruiting teams to business areas to shepherd underrepresented candidates through the 
interview process and find internal opportunities;
Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at building a pipeline of future 
leaders;
Providing peer support and executive sponsors for our internal community resource groups;
Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering supportive environments and recruiting for 
diversity;
Tracking equity and parity in retention, promotions, pay, and employee engagement scores; and
Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on diversity efforts.
As of the end of Fiscal 2024, our global workforce was 79% male, 20% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our 
workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.
We strive to provide equitable compensation and opportunities for advancement to all employees and to achieve 
promotion parity based on gender, race, and ethnicity. 
Since 2020, we have used a third-party firm to analyze our pay practices and promotion activity across rating, education, 
years of experience, job function, family, and level. The review has determined that we’ve achieved pay parity, defined as 
no statistically significant differences in compensation based on gender, race, or ethnicity, for the past several years, and 
we plan to continue doing so.
In Fiscal 2024, as we promoted many in our workforce, women continue to be promoted at an approximately equal rate to 
men.
Flexible Working Environment
We support a flexible work environment, understanding that many employees want the ability to work from home under 
certain conditions. This flexibility supports diverse hiring, retention, and employee engagement, which we believe makes 
NVIDIA a great place to work.
During Fiscal 2025, we will continue to have a flexible work environment and maintain our company wide 2-days off a 
quarter for employees to rest and recharge. 
Product Value Chain
We seek to promote human rights throughout our supply chain and expect our suppliers to respect human rights 
whenever they provide products or services for us. 

We are a full member of the RBA, an international industry organization dedicated to corporate social responsibility in 
global supply chains. Since adopting the RBA Code of Conduct in 2007 when we first became an RBA member, we have 
continued to integrate its elements into our processes, including auditing strategic suppliers and conducting internal 
assessments to confirm that we are addressing all aspects of responsible supply chain management. All of our 
manufacturing suppliers are expected to comply with the RBA Code of Conduct and associated NVIDIA policies, including 
an Agreement for Manufacturer Environmental Compliance.
We expect our suppliers to maintain progressive employment, environmental, health, safety, and ethical practices that 
meet or exceed applicable laws, the RBA Code of Conduct, our Code of Conduct, and our Human Rights Policy. We also 
encourage suppliers to use the RBA Code of Conduct as a platform to go above and beyond compliance. We monitor our 
supply chain through Validated Assessment Program audits and work directly with suppliers to implement any corrective 
actions. 
Our goal is to use only conflict-free gold, tantalum, tungsten, and tin (3TG) in our products and to achieve 100% 
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold processing facilities, as explained in 
more detail in our Responsible Minerals Policy.
Human Rights
We define human rights as the fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment belonging to all humans. We 
follow the laws of the countries in which we operate, and endorse internationally recognized principles, including the 
United Nations Global Compact, the United Nations Guiding Principles, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 
the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization, and the International Labour Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We have codified our approach to human rights in our Human Rights Policy and work to embed human rights 
considerations into decision-making processes throughout the Company.
Trustworthy AI
Our trustworthy artificial intelligence, or AI, principles, which we share with customers and partners, reflect our core 
values and our Code of Conduct. We endeavor to deliver AI models that comply with privacy and data protection laws, 
perform safely and as intended, provide transparency about a model’s design and limitations, minimize unwanted bias, 
and give equal opportunity to benefit from AI. 
Our products are programmable and general purpose in nature. When we provide tools to help developers create 
applications for specific industries, we focus on creating products and services that enable developers to create and 
accelerate socially beneficial applications.
Public Policy Engagement and Accountability
Our NCGC oversees our public policy engagement and accountability. Our Government Relations team engages in public 
policy advocacy to affect government action on issues of importance to our business, customers, stockholders, and 
employees, and to provide thought leadership to global governments on issues that directly affect our business. It is also 
a platform for educating policymakers through demonstrations of NVIDIA’s technology, amplifying our work in targeted 
areas, and collaborating with various organizations on issues of shared interest. We focus our public policy activities in AI, 
specifically to promote investment in core AI research, support workforce development around AI, and provide 
educational resources to technology policy advisors. NVIDIA may incur expenditures to support or educate viewpoints on 
public policy issues, including expenditures for intermediaries that advocate on our behalf if it is in our best interest.
NVIDIA does not make contributions of any kind (money, employee time, goods or services, or employee expense 
reimbursements) to political parties or candidates, including any direct contributions to any intermediary organizations, 
such as political action committees, or PACs, or lobbyists, campaign funds, or trade or industry associations or super 
PACs. This policy applies in all countries and across all levels of government, even where such contributions are permitted 
by law.
We belong to trade associations worldwide, representing the interests of the technology industry, industries in which we 
operate and the broader business community. Where required by law, we file lobbying disclosure reports with applicable 
governments.
Management reports to the NCGC about our policies and practices in connection with governmental relations, public 
policy advocacy, and related expenditures. 

memberships, and related expenditures, are available on our website at https://investor.nvidia.com/governance/
governance-documents.

Director Compensation
The CC reviews our non-employee director compensation annually with the assistance of Exequity LLP, the CC’s 
independent compensation consultant. Exequity prepares peer group data and informs the CC on trends in director 
compensation and corporate governance best practices. 
For our non-employee director compensation program for the year starting on the date of our 2023 Meeting, or the 2023 
Program, the CC recommended, and the Board approved, maintaining the same compensation as the previous year with 
an approximate value of $340,000, slightly below the median paid by the peer group (most recently approved by the CC at 
the time of its recommendation) to their non-employee directors:
(1) Annual amount, paid quarterly.
(2) Target annual value of RSUs granted on the first trading day following the date of our 2023 Meeting, or the 2023 Program RSUs. To correlate vesting 
with Board service, 50% of the RSUs vested on the third Wednesday in November 2023 and 50% will vest on the third Wednesday in May 2024, subject to 
the director’s continuous service with us. If a director’s service terminates due to death, their RSU grants will immediately vest in full. 
We do not pay additional fees for serving as a Lead Director, as chairperson or member of our committees, or for meeting 
attendance. Directors who are also employees do not receive compensation for service on the Board. 
The number of shares subject to each director’s 2023 Program RSUs and to the Initial Lora RSUs (as defined below) 
equaled the target value of the grant divided by the 30-calendar day trailing average closing price of our common stock 
that ended the business day before the 2023 Meeting and Ms. Lora’s appointment to the Board, respectively, to smooth 
the effects of possible market volatility. The CC considered various approaches to calculating the number of shares 
underlying the 2023 Program RSUs and Initial Lora RSUs and determined the process described above was appropriate.
Non-employee directors can elect to defer settlement of RSUs upon vesting for tax planning purposes to the earlier of (i) 
a future year (no sooner than 2025 for the 2023 Program RSUs and 2023 Program Lora RSUs (as defined below), and no 
sooner than 2027 for the Initial Lora RSUs) or (ii) in connection with the director’s cessation of service or certain change in 
control events, in accordance with the rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Messrs. Coxe, Jones, 
McCaffery, and Neal, and Dr. Shah elected to defer settlement of their 2023 Program RSUs, and Ms. Lora elected to defer 
settlement of her Initial Lora RSUs and 2023 Program Lora RSUs. Directors do not receive dividends on unvested, or 
vested but deferred, RSUs.
Other Compensation/Benefits
Our directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending Board and committee meetings and continuing 
educational programs pursuant to our Corporate Governance Policies. We do not offer change-in-control benefits to our 
directors, except for vesting acceleration under our equity plans that applies to all award holders under such plans if an 
acquirer does not assume or substitute for those awards, provided that the award holder’s continuous service with us has 
not terminated prior to the applicable change-in-control.
Director Compensation for Fiscal 2024
Name
Fees Earned or Paid in Cash ($)
Stock Awards ($) (1)
Total ($)
Robert K. Burgess
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Tench Coxe
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
John O. Dabiri 
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Persis S. Drell
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Dawn Hudson
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Harvey C. Jones
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Melissa B. Lora (2)
56,000
 
525,372 (3)
581,372
Michael G. McCaffery
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Stephen C. Neal 
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Mark L. Perry
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
A. Brooke Seawell
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Aarti Shah 
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268
Mark A. Stevens
85,000
 
274,268 
359,268

(1) 
Amounts shown do not reflect amounts actually received by the director. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant date fair value, 
calculated in accordance with ASC 718, for RSU awards granted during Fiscal 2024. The assumptions used in the calculation of award values are set 
forth in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K. On June 23, 2023, each non-employee 
director then serving on the Board received their RSU grant for 650 shares, representing their 2023 Program RSUs. The grant date fair value per share 
for these awards as determined under ASC 718 was $421.95. 
(2) 
Reflects a pro-rated annual cash retainer for service commencing with Ms. Lora’s appointment to the Board in July 2023. 
(3) 
Ms. Lora was awarded on August 8, 2023: (a) in connection with her appointment to the Board in July 2023, an initial RSU grant for 587 shares with a 
target value of $255,000, or the Initial Lora RSUs, with a grant date fair value per share as determined under FASB ASC Topic 718 of $446.21, and (b) as 
compensation for her service on the Board through the date of the 2024 Meeting, a pro-rated 2023 Program RSU grant for 590 shares, with a grant 
date fair value per share as determined under FASB ASC Topic 718 of $446.52, reflecting the period of service between her appointment date and the 
date of the 2024 Meeting, or the 2023 Program Lora RSUs. The Initial Lora RSUs vested as to 1/6th of the shares on December 13, 2023 and will vest 
as to 1/6th of the shares approximately every six months thereafter, subject to Ms. Lora’s continuous service with us. A pro rata amount of the 2023 
Program Lora RSUs vested on November 15, 2023 and the remainder will vest on May 15, 2024, subject to Ms. Lora’s continuous service with us. If Ms. 
Lora’s service terminates due to death, her RSU grants will immediately vest in full.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregate number of unvested RSUs held by each of our nonemployee directors as of January 28, 2024: 
Name
RSUs
Name
RSUs
Robert K. Burgess

Michael G. McCaffery

Tench Coxe

Stephen C. Neal

John O. Dabiri

Mark L. Perry

Persis S. Drell

A. Brooke Seawell

Dawn Hudson

Aarti Shah

Harvey C. Jones

Mark A. Stevens

Melissa B. Lora

None of our non-employee directors held unexercised stock options as of January 28, 2024.
The following aggregate number of vested RSUs for which settlement was previously deferred were ultimately issued in 
Fiscal 2024: 1,716 RSUs for Ms. Hudson, 8,884 RSUs for Mr. Jones, 1,716 RSUs for Mr. McCaffery, and 2,848 RSUs for Mr. 
Neal.

Review of Transactions with Related Persons
Employees, officers, and directors must avoid any activity that conflicts with, or has the appearance of conflicting with, 
our interests. This policy is included in our Code of Conduct and our Financial Team Code of Conduct. We regularly 
conduct a review of all related party transactions for potential conflicts of interest and all transactions involving 
executive officers or directors must be approved by the NCGC in compliance with the Company’s policies and the Listing 
Standards of The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Except as discussed below, there were no transactions with related 
persons in Fiscal 2024 that would require disclosure in this proxy statement or approval by the NCGC. 
Transactions with Related Persons
The daughter and son of Jen-Hsun Huang, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, are 
employed by the Company. Neither of them shares a household with Mr. Huang, is one of our executive officers, or 
reports directly to Mr. Huang. Additionally, the son of Dr. Shah, one of our directors, has been employed by the Company 
since February 2024. He does not share a household with Dr. Shah and is not one of our executive officers.
The compensation of these individuals was determined in accordance with NVIDIA’s compensation practices applicable to 
employees with comparable qualifications and responsibilities and holding similar positions and without the involvement 
of Mr. Huang or Dr. Shah, respectively. The total compensation for Fiscal 2024 of the daughter and son of Mr. Huang was 
approximately $370,000 and $330,000, respectively. The total compensation for Fiscal 2025 of the son of Dr. Shah is 
expected to be approximately $450,000.
Each of them has received and continues to be eligible for equity awards on the same general terms and conditions as 
applicable to employees in similar positions who do not have such family relationships.
We have entered into indemnity agreements with our executive officers and directors which provide, among other things, 
that we will indemnify such executive officer or director, under the circumstances and to the extent provided for therein, 
for expenses, damages, judgments, fines, and settlements he or she may be required to pay in actions or proceedings 
which he or she is or may be made a party by reason of his or her position as a director, executive officer or other agent of 
NVIDIA, and otherwise to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law and our Bylaws. We intend to execute similar 
agreements with our future executive officers and directors.
See Employment, Severance, and Change-in-Control Arrangements below for a description of the terms of the 2007 Plan, 
related to a change-in-control of NVIDIA.
During Fiscal 2024, we granted RSUs to our non-employee directors, and RSUs and PSUs to our executive officers (other 
than Mr. Huang, who received PSUs only). See Director Compensation above and Executive Compensation below.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
The following table sets forth information as of March 25, 2024 as to shares of our common stock beneficially owned by 
each of our NEOs, each of our directors, all of our directors and executive officers as a group, and all known by us to be 
beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the SEC’s 
rules and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to securities as well as shares of common stock 
subject to options exercisable, or PSUs or RSUs that will vest, within 60 days of March 25, 2024.
This table is based upon information provided to us by our executive officers and directors. Information about principal 
stockholders, other than percentages of beneficial ownership, is based solely on Schedules 13G/A filed with the SEC. 
Unless otherwise indicated and subject to community property laws where applicable, we believe that each of the 
stockholders named in the table has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares indicated as 
beneficially owned. Percentages are based on 2,463,726,581 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 25, 
2024, adjusted as required by SEC rules. 
Name of Beneficial Owner
Shares Owned
Shares Issuable 
Within 60 Days
Total Shares 
Beneficially 
Owned
Percent
NEOs:
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
93,463,791 (1)
 
 
93,463,791 
3.79%
Colette M. Kress
 
515,421 (2)
 
 
515,421 
Ajay K. Puri
 
409,688 (3)
 
 
409,688 
Debora Shoquist
 
201,610 (4)
 
 
201,610 
Timothy S. Teter
 
231,305 (5)
 
 
231,305 
Directors, not including Mr. Huang:
Robert K. Burgess
 
29,903 

30,228 
Tench Coxe
 
3,785,524 (6)
 
 
3,785,524 
John O. Dabiri
 
1,730 

2,055 
Persis S. Drell
 
28,503 (7)

28,828 
Dawn Hudson
 
70,175 

70,500 
Harvey C. Jones
 
743,328 (8)
 
 
743,328 
Melissa B. Lora
 
— (9)
 
 
Michael G. McCaffery
 
10,068 (10)
 
 
10,068 
Stephen C. Neal
 
15,386 (11)
 
 
15,386 
Mark L. Perry
 
138,287 (12)

138,612 
A. Brooke Seawell
 
501,763 (13)

502,088 
Aarti Shah
 
— (14)
 
 
Mark A. Stevens
 
4,102,556 (15)

4,102,881 
Directors and executive officers as a group (18 persons)
 104,249,038 (16)
 
2,275 
 104,251,313 
4.23%
5% Stockholders:
The Vanguard Group, Inc.
 204,504,938 (17)
 
 204,504,938 
8.30%
BlackRock, Inc.
 180,593,555 (18)
 
 180,593,555 
7.33%
FMR LLC
 127,855,229 (19)
 
 127,855,229 
5.19%
* Represents less than 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.
(1)
Includes (a) 60,483,228 shares of common stock held by Jen-Hsun Huang and Lori Huang, as co-trustees of the Jen-Hsun and Lori Huang Living Trust, 
u/a/d May 1, 1995, or the Huang Trust; (b) 4,948,956 shares of common stock held by J. and L. Huang Investments, L.P., of which the Huang Trust is the 
general partner; (c) 2,228,000 shares of common stock held by The Huang 2012 Irrevocable Trust, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are co-trustees; (d) 
2,968,428 shares of common stock held by The Jen-Hsun Huang 2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang is trustee; (e) 2,968,428 shares of common 
stock held by The Lori Lynn Huang 2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang’s wife is trustee; (f) 5,007,800 shares of common stock held by The Huang 
Irrevocable Remainder Trust u/a/d 2/19/2016, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are co-trustees; and (g) 6,813,073 shares of common stock held by The 
Jen-Hsun & Lori Huang Foundation, or the Huang Foundation, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are board members. By virtue of their status as cotrustees of the Huang Trust, The Huang 2012 Irrevocable Trust, and The Huang Irrevocable Remainder Trust, each of Mr. Huang and his wife may be 
deemed to have shared beneficial ownership of the shares referenced in (a), (b), (c), and (f), and to have shared power to vote or to direct the vote or to 
dispose of or direct the disposition of such shares. By virtue of their status as board members of the Huang Foundation since 2007, Mr. Huang and his 
wife may be deemed to have shared beneficial ownership of the shares referenced in (g), and to have shared power to vote or to direct the vote or to 

dispose of or direct the disposition of such shares, and therefore the Huang Foundation’s shares are being reported in accordance with Item 403 of 
Regulation S-K. Mr. Huang and his wife have no pecuniary interest in the Huang Foundation’s shares. 
(2)
Includes 400 shares held by son 1, 400 shares held by son 2, and 76,768 shares held by a limited liability company, the sole member of which is an 
irrevocable trust of which the trustee is an independent institution.
(3)
Includes (a) 358,148 shares of common stock held by the Ajay K Puri Revocable Trust dtd 12/10/2015, of which Mr. Puri is the trustee and of which Mr. 
Puri exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 4,636 shares of common stock held by The Puri 2019 Irrevocable Children’s Trust dtd 
12/06/2019, of which Mr. Puri is one of the trustees. Mr. Puri disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by The Puri 2019 Irrevocable Children’s 
Trust, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
(4)
Includes 185,363 shares of common stock held by the Debora C. Shoquist Revocable Living Trust dtd 6/13/2002, of which Ms. Shoquist is the trustee.
(5)
Represents shares of common stock held by the Horne Teter Family Living Trust, dated February 1, 2019, of which Mr. Teter is a co-trustee and 
exercises shared voting and investment power.
(6)
Includes (a) 685,248 shares of common stock held in a retirement trust over which Mr. Coxe exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 
3,097,136 shares of common stock held in The Coxe Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Coxe and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Coxe exercises 
shared voting and investment power. Mr. Coxe disclaims beneficial ownership on the shares held by The Coxe Revocable Trust, except to the extent of 
his pecuniary interest therein. Mr. Coxe shares pecuniary interest in shares held in his individual name pursuant to a contractual relationship. Mr. Coxe 
disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
Does not include an additional 1,763 shares of common stock that Mr. Coxe has deferred for future issuance. 
(7)
Includes (a) 2,106 shares of common stock held by The Welch-Drell 2009 Revocable Trust U/A DTD 04/16/2009, of which Dr. Drell and her husband are 
co-trustees and of which Dr. Drell exercises shared voting and investment power, (b) 68 shares of common stock owned by Cornelia I Welch, (c) 68 
shares of common stock owned by Joseph Welch, and (d) 68 shares of common stock owned by Rose I Welch.
(8)
Represents shares of common stock held in the H.C. Jones Living Trust, of which Mr. Jones is trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises sole voting and 
investment power.
Does not include an additional 6,327 shares of common stock that Mr. Jones has deferred for future issuance.
(9)
Does not include 362 shares of common stock that Ms. Lora has deferred for future issuance.
(10) Does not include an additional 3,173 shares of common stock that Mr. McCaffery has deferred for future issuance.
(11) Includes (a) 1,900 shares of shares of common stock held by the 2013 Stephen C. Neal Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Neal is trustee and of which Mr. 
Neal exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 1,252 shares of common stock held by the Neal/Rhyu Revocable Trust dated 05/02/2017, of 
which Mr. Neal is a co-trustee and exercises shared voting and investment power.
Does not include an additional 5,357 shares of common stock that Mr. Neal has deferred for future issuance. 
(12) Includes (a) 123,000 shares of common stock held by The Perry & Pena Family Trust, of which Mr. Perry and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Perry exercises shared voting and investment power, (b) 1,000 shares of common stock held by The Zoe Blue Perry 2020 Irrevocable Trust, of which 
Mr. Perry and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Perry exercises shared voting and investment power, and (c) 1,000 shares of common stock 
held by The Taylor William Perry 2023 Irrevocable Trust, of which Mr. Perry and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Perry exercises shared voting 
and investment power.
(13) Includes 500,000 shares of common stock held by the Rosemary & A. Brooke Seawell Revocable Trust U/A dated 1/20/2009, of which Mr. Seawell and 
his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Seawell exercises shared voting and investment power.
(14) Does not include an additional 6,787 shares of common stock that Dr. Shah has deferred for future issuance.
(15) Includes (a) 1,085,833 shares of common stock held by the 3rd Millennium Trust, of which Mr. Stevens and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Stevens exercises shared voting and investment power, and (b) 1,725,195 shares of common stock held by the Envy Trust u/a/d December 7, 2021, 
of which Mr. Stevens is trustee.
(16) Includes shares owned by all directors and executive officers.
(17) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated February 13, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2024 by The Vanguard Group, Inc. 
reporting its beneficial ownership as of December 29, 2023. The Schedule 13G/A reports that Vanguard has shared voting power with respect to 
3,257,646 shares, sole dispositive power with respect to 193,993,095 shares and shared dispositive power with respect to 10,511,843 shares. 
Vanguard is located at 100 Vanguard Boulevard, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355.
(18) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated January 26, 2024, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2024 by BlackRock, Inc. reporting its 
beneficial ownership as of December 31, 2023. The Schedule 13G/A reports that BlackRock has sole voting power with respect to 162,856,513 shares 
and sole dispositive power with respect to 180,593,555 shares. BlackRock is located at 50 Hudson Yards, New York, New York 10001.
(19) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated February 8, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2024 by FMR LLC reporting its 
beneficial ownership as of December 29, 2023. The Schedule 13G/A reports that FMR has sole voting power with respect to 121,060,256 shares and 
sole dispositive power with respect to 127,855,229 shares. FMR is located at 245 Summer Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02210.

Proposal 2—Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
What am I voting on? A non-binding vote, known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our Fiscal 2024 NEO compensation.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter.
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: None. 
 
In accordance with Section 14A of the Exchange Act, we are asking our stockholders to vote on an advisory basis, 
commonly referred to as “say-on-pay,” to approve the Fiscal 2024 compensation paid to our NEOs as disclosed in the 
CD&A, the compensation tables and the accompanying narrative discussion. This vote is intended to address the overall 
compensation of our NEOs and the philosophy, policies, and practices described in this proxy statement, rather than any 
specific compensation component.
In response to our stockholders’ preference, our Board has adopted a policy of providing for annual “say-on-pay” votes. 
This advisory proposal is not binding on the Board nor us. Nevertheless, the views expressed by our stockholders are 
important to the Board and, accordingly, the Board and the CC intend to consider the results of this vote in making 
future NEO compensation decisions.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that our stockholders adopt the following resolution:
“RESOLVED, that the Fiscal 2024 compensation paid to the Company’s named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant 
to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, compensation tables, and narrative 
discussion, is hereby APPROVED.”

Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
This CD&A describes our Fiscal 2024 executive compensation philosophy, design, and process, and how our corporate 
results affected the payout of performance-based awards. Our Fiscal 2024 NEOs were:
Jen-Hsun Huang
Colette M. Kress
Ajay K. Puri
Debora Shoquist
Timothy S. Teter
President and CEO
EVP and CFO
EVP, Worldwide 
Field Operations
EVP, Operations
EVP, General Counsel 
and Secretary
Fiscal 2024 Executive Compensation Summary
Continued Focus on Pay for Performance 
NVIDIA’s executive compensation program in Fiscal 2024 continued to be guided by a pay for performance philosophy to 
link competitive NEO pay with our stockholders’ interests. Approximately 96% of our CEO’s, and approximately 56% of 
our other NEOs’, total target pay was dependent on corporate performance in the form of SY PSUs, MY PSUs, and 
variable cash. 
Executive Pay Heavily Weighted Towards Equity Awards
The vast majority of our NEOs’ total target pay for Fiscal 2024 was comprised of equity awards:
SY PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP Operating Income performance (with an opportunity to earn Additional SY 
PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP Gross Margin performance), vesting over 4 years
MY PSUs based on 3-year TSR relative to the S&P 500, vesting over 3 years, and
RSUs vesting over 4 years (for NEOs other than our CEO)
(1) Based on total target pay as approved by the CC, consisting of annual base salary, and, assuming the Company achieves associated performance goals at 
a Base Compensation Plan level, target payout opportunity under our Variable Cash Plan and target equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver. The 
target equity opportunity for SY PSUs does not include the Additional SY PSUs. 
(2) Reflects the total target pay mix average for each NEO other than our CEO. The total does not sum to 100% due to rounding. 
NEOs were also eligible for variable cash awards based on annual revenue performance, in addition to base salary.
Additional SY PSU Opportunities and Lower Threshold Payout; No Changes to Total Target Pay Amounts
The CC designed Fiscal 2024 NEO total target pay to be flat with Fiscal 2023, but adjusted certain features of the 
compensation program to motivate our executives while emphasizing the Company’s long-term strategy. Up to an 
additional 50% of an NEO’s target SY PSU payout, or the Additional SY PSUs, could be earned upon achievement of a 
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin goal, if we achieved Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income at or above Base 
Compensation Plan. For SY PSUs and our Variable Cash Plan, Base Compensation Plan goals approximated, while Stretch 
Compensation Plan goals were set well above, our Fiscal 2023 results, and payouts for Threshold performance were 
reduced to 20% in Fiscal 2024 from 50% in Fiscal 2023. Because the Additional SY PSUs represented an upside payout 

opportunity, the CC set both the Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin Threshold and the Stretch Compensation Plan 
goals well above actual Fiscal 2023 performance.
Record Performance Resulting in Maximum Payouts
Fiscal 2024 Revenue
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (1)
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP 
Gross Margin (1)
3-Year TSR Relative to S&P 500 
(Fiscal 2022 to 2024) (2)
$60.9 billion
$37.1 billion
73.8%
276% (99th Percentile of S&P 500)
(1) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(2) Represents TSR for purposes of the MY PSU performance goal, calculated using cumulative stock price appreciation with dividends reinvested and the 
average closing stock price for the 60 trading days preceding the start, and preceding and including the last day, of the 3-year performance period.
As a result of the above performance achievements, each exceeding the CC’s pre-established Stretch Compensation Plan 
goals, our NEOs earned the maximum payouts possible for our Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs (including the Additional SY 
PSUs), and MY PSUs.
Our Compensation Philosophy and Practices
NVIDIA is building a one-of-a-kind company that invents the future, builds amazing technologies, and strives to achieve 
the highest level of craft. To achieve this vision, we must attract and retain a high-caliber executive team while balancing 
our stockholders’ interests. While our CC considers numerous factors in making executive pay decisions, our 
compensation program is guided by the following philosophies:
Pay for Performance: emphasize at-risk and performance-based cash and equity for NEOs based on multiple 
corporate metrics
Provide Competitive Pay: NEO target compensation should be competitive with our peers, reflect job impact, 
scope, and responsibilities, and be structured to attract and retain talent
Stockholder Alignment: align NEO pay with stockholders’ long-term interests and consider feedback from our 
annual stockholder engagement efforts and “say-on-pay” vote
Simplicity and Transparency: design a compensation program with simple, objective metrics
In this CD&A, total target pay refers to (i) an NEO’s annual base salary, (ii) target variable cash opportunity, which means 
the potential payout under our Variable Cash Plan, assuming the Company achieves the associated performance goal at a 
Base Compensation Plan level, and (iii) target equity opportunity, which means the value of the equity opportunities 
granted during the year that the CC intended to deliver, assuming that the Company achieves associated performance 
goals at a Base Compensation Plan level (and for purposes of the SY PSUs, excluding the Additional SY PSUs).
Our executive compensation program adheres to the following practices: 
What We Do
What We Don’t Do
üEmphasize at-risk, performance-based compensation, 
with simple, objective goals for those components of pay
üInclude multi-year PSU awards
üUse annual and 3-year performance targets to 
determine PSU awards earned
üSet rigorous performance goals that are informed by the 
Company’s operating plan
üRequire NEOs to provide continuous service for 4 years 
to fully vest in SY PSU and RSU awards
üEvaluate our program annually based on feedback from 
stockholder engagement efforts and make adjustments 
when appropriate
üMitigate compensation risks
üCap performance-based variable cash and PSU payouts
üRetain an independent compensation consultant 
reporting directly to the CC
üRequire NEOs to maintain meaningful stock ownership
üMaintain a clawback policy for performance-based 
compensation
X Enter into agreements with NEOs providing for specific 
terms of employment or severance benefits
X Give our executive officers special change-in-control 
benefits
X Provide automatic equity vesting upon a change-incontrol (except for the provisions in our equity plans that 
apply to all employees if an acquiring company does not 
assume or substitute our outstanding stock awards)
X Give NEOs supplemental retirement benefits
X Provide tax gross-ups
X Pay dividends or the equivalent on unearned or 
unvested equity
X Permit executive officers, employees, or directors to 
hedge their ownership of NVIDIA stock or to pledge 
NVIDIA stock as collateral for a loan

How We Determine Executive Compensation
The CC’s oversight and decision-making for our Fiscal 2024 executive compensation program is a multi-year process:
Dec 2022 - Feb 

Jan 2023
Mar 2023
Mar 2024
May 2024
Members of 
management and the 
Board, including our 
Lead Director and a 
CC member, engaged 
in stockholder 
outreach
CC determined peer 
companies
CC considered 
stockholder feedback 
and peer companies 
in determining 
performance goals 
and compensation
CC certified 
achievement and 
payouts for Fiscal 
2024 Variable Cash 
Plan, SY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2024 
and MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2022 *
Completed 
compensation risk 
assessment; 
published executive 
compensation 
program details in 
proxy statement
* The CC will certify achievement and payouts for MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 by March 2026.
Roles of the CC, Compensation Consultant, and Management
The roles of our CC; our independent compensation consultant, Exequity, which reported directly to our CC; and 
management, including our CEO, CFO, and Human Resources and Legal departments, in setting our Fiscal 2024 NEO 
compensation program are summarized below.
During Fiscal 2024, our CC continued to use Exequity for its experience working with our CC and with compensation 
committees at other technology companies. Our CC analyzed whether Exequity’s role raised any conflict of interests, 
taking into consideration the following: 
Exequity does not provide any services directly to NVIDIA (although we pay Exequity on the CC’s behalf);
The percentage of Exequity’s total revenue resulting from fees paid by us on the CC’s behalf;
Exequity’s conflict of interest policies and procedures;
Any business or personal relationship between Exequity and an NEO, or between Exequity’s individual 
compensation advisors and an NEO or any member of our CC; and 
Any NVIDIA stock owned by Exequity or its individual compensation advisors
After considering these factors, our CC determined that Exequity’s work did not create any conflict of interests.
Our CC reviews and approves the compensation of all of our NEOs, and solicits the input of Mr. Huang and Exequity for its 
NEO compensation decisions. Specifically, at the CC’s direction, Exequity and management recommended a peer group 
for our Fiscal 2024 executive pay program, which was approved by the CC. Management gathered peer data from the 
Radford Global Technology Survey, or the Radford Survey, which was considered by Exequity in its analysis of Mr. Huang’s 
compensation, and by Mr. Huang in his recommendations on our other NEOs’ compensation for Fiscal 2024. The CC 
considered Exequity’s advice, Mr. Huang’s recommendations, and management’s proposed Fiscal 2024 performance goals 
as informed by the Company’s operating plan prior to making its final and sole decision on all Fiscal 2024 NEO 
compensation. Ultimately, the CC certified compensation payouts for the applicable performance periods that concluded 
at the end of Fiscal 2024 relating to the Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2024, and MY PSUs granted 
during Fiscal 2022. The CC also oversaw the Fiscal 2024 compensation risk analysis prepared by management.
Peer Companies and Market Compensation Data
We believe our peers should be companies that (1) compete with us for executive talent; (2) have established businesses, 
market presence, and complexity similar to us; and (3) are generally of similar size to us, as measured by revenue and/or 
market capitalization at roughly 0.5-3.5x of ours. After consultation with management, the CC determined that the 
existing peer group generally continued to be appropriate for Fiscal 2024, except for removing Intuit Inc., PayPal Holdings, 
Inc., and VMware, Inc. due to their respective revenues and market capitalizations falling below our targeted range: 
Fiscal 2024 Peer Group
Adobe Inc. (ADBE)
Oracle Corporation (ORCL)
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD)
Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM)
Broadcom Limited (AVGO)
Salesforce, Inc. (CRM)
Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO)
SAP SE (SAP)
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM)
Texas Instruments Incorporated (TXN)
Intel Corporation (INTC)
Visa Inc. (V)
Netflix, Inc. (NFLX)
Our CC chose each member of the peer group after considering a combination of the factors described above. As a 
result, while some of our compensation peer group members may have been smaller or larger than us in terms of market 
capitalization or revenue, the CC determined that such companies were still within a reasonable range of sizes compared 

to us and should be included in the peer group because we compete with them for talent and because they have 
established businesses with complexity similar to ours. 
In determining our Fiscal 2024 peer group, the CC reviewed our trailing 12-month revenue (as previously reported up 
through our third quarter results for Fiscal 2023) and market capitalization as of October 2022, compared to the 75th 
percentile, median, and 25th percentile of our peer group companies, which were as follows:
Revenue (in billions)
Market Capitalization (in billions)
Fiscal 2024 Peer Group 75th Percentile
$44.17 
$168.46
Fiscal 2024 Peer Group Median
$29.58 
$131.01 
Fiscal 2024 Peer Group 25th Percentile
$22.17 
$114.94 
NVIDIA
$28.57 
$335.94 
Our CC reviews market practices and compensation data from the Radford Survey for peer companies’ comparably 
situated executives when determining the components of our executive compensation program, as well as total 
compensation. We compare the total compensation opportunity for our NEOs and similarly situated executives at the 
25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles of peer company data where available, and the CC considers the factors below in 
determining NEO compensation opportunities.
Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation
In addition to peer data, our CC considers the following factors in making executive compensation decisions. The weight 
given to each factor may differ among NEOs and each component of pay, and is subject to the CC’s sole discretion.
ü The need to attract and retain talent in a highly 
competitive industry
ü Stockholder feedback regarding our executive pay
ü The simplicity of the overall program and the 
transparency of the performance metrics
ü An NEO’s past performance and anticipated future 
contributions
ü Our financial performance and forecasted results, as 
well as our prior financial performance and resulting 
impact on our executives’ compensation
ü The need for NEOs to address new business 
challenges
ü Changes in the scale and complexity of our business
ü Each NEO’s current total compensation
ü Each NEO’s unvested equity
ü Internal pay equity relative to similarly situated 
executives and the scope and complexity of the 
department(s) or function(s) the NEO manages 
ü Our CEO’s recommendations for the other NEOs, 
including his understanding of each NEO’s performance, 
capabilities, and contributions
ü Our CC’s independent judgment
ü Our philosophy that an NEO’s total compensation 
opportunity and percentage of at-risk pay should increase 
with responsibility
ü The total compensation cost and stockholder dilution, 
including from executive compensation, to maintain a 
responsible cost structure for our compensation 
programs *
* See Note 4, Stock-Based Compensation of our Form 10-K consolidated financial statements for a discussion of stock-based compensation cost.
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions and Achievements
Stockholder Outreach and Feedback
We value stockholder feedback and conduct an annual stockholder outreach program. During the Fall of 2022, in 
preparing for Fiscal 2024 compensation decisions, we contacted our top institutional holders who held approximately 1% 
or more of our stock, with an aggregate ownership of approximately 32% of our common stock outstanding. Members of 
management and the Board, including our Lead Director and a member of our CC, ultimately discussed executive 
compensation with representatives of stockholders holding an aggregate of approximately 19% of our common stock. 
Our stockholders provided positive feedback on our decision not to change Fiscal 2023 executive compensation 
performance goals mid-year during the macroeconomic challenges that impacted our Fiscal 2023 payouts, and on the 
balance of our executive pay across both short- and long-term performance metrics. 
After considering their feedback and the say-on-pay approval rate of 93% of our NEOs’ Fiscal 2022 compensation, our CC 
determined to maintain generally the same elements and performance-based metrics for our Fiscal 2024 NEO pay 
program, but provided for an opportunity to earn Additional SY PSUs upon achievement of a rigorous Non-GAAP Gross 
Margin goal, as further described below. Our CC believed that continuing to structure the performance-based 
components of our executive pay program solely around NVIDIA’s corporate financial performance goals appropriately 
aligned the motivation of management with the interests of our stockholders. 
In the Fall of 2023, members of management and the Board, including our Lead Director, again engaged in stockholder 
outreach. The CC considered the feedback from these meetings, and the results of the say-on-pay vote for Fiscal 2023 
compensation, in making decisions regarding the ongoing Fiscal 2025 executive compensation program.

Total Target Compensation Approach
In evaluating Fiscal 2024 compensation, our CC reviewed each NEO’s total target pay opportunity and distribution across 
different pay elements. Our CC compared Mr. Huang’s base salary, target variable cash opportunity, target total cash 
opportunity, target equity opportunity, and total target pay opportunity against chief executives of our peer companies. 
For our other NEOs, their respective total target pay was reviewed by Mr. Huang against similarly situated executives of 
our peer companies, where available. This market reference, along with his evaluation of internal pay equity, individual 
performance, level of unvested equity and increasing complexity of our executives’ roles, informed Mr. Huang’s 
recommendations of the other NEOs’ compensation to the CC. The CC also considered the factors discussed above in 
Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation and the CC’s compensation objectives for Fiscal 2024. Our CC did 
not use a single formula or assign a specific weight to any one factor in determining each NEO’s target pay. Instead, our 
CC used its business judgment and experience to set total target compensation, mix of cash and equity, and fixed and atrisk pay opportunities for each NEO to achieve our program’s objectives. When the CC set each element of pay for an 
NEO, it considered the context of the levels of the other pay elements, and the resulting total target pay for such NEO. 
The CC established amounts and a structure that it believed would allow our NEOs to realize above-market value from 
equity awards and variable cash incentives only upon exceptional corporate performance. 
Continued Emphasis on Long-Term, At-Risk, Performance-Based Equity Awards
For Fiscal 2024, the CC decided that the largest portion of NEOs’ total target pay would remain in the form of at-risk 
equity with performance-based vesting. The CC believes an emphasis on long-term, at-risk opportunities drives results 
and increases NEO and stockholder alignment, while providing sufficient annual cash compensation to be competitive 
and retain our NEOs. The PSUs and RSUs provide long-term incentives and retention benefits because our NEOs must 
achieve, for PSUs, the predetermined performance goals and, for both PSUs and RSUs, must remain with us for a longer 
term (3 years for MY PSUs and 4 years for SY PSUs and RSUs) to fully vest in the awards.
The CC concluded that, given Mr. Huang’s position as CEO, 100% of his equity grants should be at-risk and performancebased, tightly aligning his interests with stockholders. Consistent with its practice in prior years, the CC granted Mr. 
Huang’s target equity opportunity 100% in the form of SY PSUs (which value is aligned with our annual corporate financial 
performance) and MY PSUs (which value is aligned with our 3-year relative shareholder return), evenly split between both 
forms of PSUs to emphasize both shorter-term and longer-term performance. For our other NEOs, the CC provided 40% 
of the target equity opportunity in the form of RSUs and 60% of the target equity opportunity in the form of PSUs. The 
CC determined this mix appropriately balanced an emphasis on performance achievement while still providing a 
meaningful amount of time-vesting RSUs to encourage retention.
To motivate our NEOs to focus on operational efficiencies and providing value-added products, management 
recommended, and the CC determined that it was appropriate, to provide our executives with an opportunity to earn 
Additional SY PSUs in Fiscal 2024 if (i) Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income was achieved at or above Base 
Compensation Plan and (ii) we achieved a Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin goal, as further described below under 
Performance Metrics and Goals for Executive Compensation.

Components of Pay
The primary components of NVIDIA’s Fiscal 2024 executive compensation program are summarized below:
Fixed 
Compensation
At-Risk Compensation
Base Salary
Variable Cash
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
RSUs (1)
Form
Cash
Cash
Equity
Equity
Equity
Who 
Receives
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs except our 
CEO
Performance 
Measure
N/A
Revenue 
(determines 
cash payout)
Non-GAAP Operating Income (and 
Non-GAAP Gross Margin for potential 
Additional SY PSUs (2)) (determines 
number of shares eligible to vest)
TSR relative to the S&P 500 
(determines number of 
shares eligible to vest)
N/A
Performance 
Period
N/A
1 year
1 year
3 years
N/A
Vesting 
Period
N/A
N/A
4 years from grant
3 years from grant
4 years from grant
Vesting 
Terms
N/A
N/A
If at least Threshold achieved, 25% on 
approximately the 1-year anniversary 
of the grant date; 6.25% quarterly 
thereafter
If at least Threshold achieved, 
100% on approximately the 3year anniversary of the grant 
date
6.25% vests 
quarterly from the 
grant date (3)
Timeframe 
Emphasized
Annual
Annual
Long-term
Long-term
Long-term
Purpose
Compensate for 
expected dayto-day 
performance
Reward for 
annual 
corporate 
financial 
performance
Align with stockholder interests by 
linking NEO pay to annual operational 
performance and ongoing stock price 
performance during the vesting period
Align with long-term 
stockholder interests by 
linking NEO pay to multi-year 
relative shareholder return 
and ongoing stock price 
performance during the 
vesting period
Align with 
stockholder 
interests by linking 
NEO pay to stock 
price performance
Maximum 
Amount That 
Can Be 
Earned
N/A
200% of target 
opportunity 
under our 
Variable Cash 
Plan
150% (200% with Additional SY PSUs) 
of Mr. Huang’s SY PSU target 
opportunity and 200% (250% with 
Additional SY PSUs) of our other NEOs’ 
respective SY PSU target opportunity
Ultimate value delivered depends on 
stock price on date earned shares vest
150% of Mr. Huang’s MY PSU 
target opportunity and 200% 
of our other NEOs’ respective 
MY PSU target opportunity
Ultimate value delivered 
depends on stock price on 
date earned shares vest
100% of grant
Ultimate value 
delivered depends 
on stock price on 
date shares vest
(1) Our CC considers RSUs to be at-risk pay because the realized value depends on our stock price, a financial performance measure.
(2) Contingent upon the Company achieving annual Non-GAAP Operating Income at Base Compensation Plan or better.
(3) 
Reflects vesting schedule for annual performance RSU grants. New hire RSU grants vest as to 25% on approximately the 1-year anniversary of the 
grant date, and 6.25% quarterly thereafter.
We also provide our NEOs with insurance benefits and eligibility to participate in our ESPP and 401(k) plan on the same 
basis as our other employees. We may also provide perquisites to our NEOs from time to time. For more information 
about the other compensation and benefits we provide to our NEOs, see Other Compensation and Benefits below.
Setting Executive Compensation Values
For Fiscal 2024, after considering the scope and complexity of management’s roles and responsibilities, the CC 
determined that our NEOs’ target pay should be flat with Fiscal 2023. There were no increases to base salaries or variable 
cash opportunities and no intended increases to target equity opportunities (minor differences in values occurred due to 
rounding in share calculation methodology). However, the CC did adjust NEOs’ upside opportunity and provided for 
Additional SY PSUs that could be earned if, assuming annual Non-GAAP Operating Income was achieved at or above Base 
Compensation Plan, an additional Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin goal was achieved. 
Determining Equity Award Amounts
To determine the actual share number of RSUs and target numbers of SY PSUs and MY PSUs awarded to our NEOs, the 
CC divided the target equity opportunities they intended to deliver, as described above, by the 30-calendar day trailing 
average closing price of our common stock ending on the last day of the calendar month prior to the date of grant, which 
was used instead of the stock price on the date of grant to smooth the effects of possible market volatility. The CC 
understands that using a historical average stock price can result in the ultimate grant date value of an award as required 
to be reported in the Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table under ASC 718 being 
different than the target equity opportunity. The CC considered various approaches to granting awards and determined 
the process described above is appropriate.
The target number of SY PSUs would be eligible to vest upon the Company’s achievement of Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP 
Operating Income at Base Compensation Plan. If the Company achieved Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income at 
Stretch Compensation Plan or more, excluding the Additional SY PSUs, the maximum number of SY PSUs would be 
eligible to vest, capped at 150% of Mr. Huang’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’ respective, SY PSU target equity 
opportunities. If the Company achieved Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income at Threshold, the minimum number of 

SY PSUs would be eligible to vest, equivalent to 20% of our NEOs’ respective SY PSU target equity opportunities. In 
addition, upon the Company achieving at least Base Compensation Plan for Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income, if 
the Company also achieved Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin at Threshold or better, our NEOs could earn Additional 
SY PSUs capped at 50% of their respective SY PSU target equity opportunities. 
The target number of MY PSUs would be eligible to vest upon the Company’s achievement of TSR relative to the S&P 500 
from the start of Fiscal 2022 to the end of Fiscal 2024, or the 3-Year Relative TSR, at Base Compensation Plan. If the 
Company achieved 3-Year Relative TSR at Stretch Compensation Plan or more, the maximum number of MY PSUs would 
be eligible to vest, capped at 150% of Mr. Huang’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’ respective, MY PSU target equity 
opportunities. If the Company achieved 3-Year Relative TSR at Threshold level, the minimum number of MY PSUs would 
be eligible to vest, equivalent to 25% of our NEOs’ respective MY PSU target equity opportunities.
No PSUs would be eligible to vest if the applicable Threshold performance level was not achieved. Any PSUs determined 
to be unearned would be cancelled.
Performance Metrics and Goals for Executive Compensation
The CC’s decisions in March 2023 regarding the performance metrics for Fiscal 2024 executive compensation were 
informed by the Fiscal 2024 operating plan as approved by the Board at that time. The operating plan took into account 
the Company’s challenging Fiscal 2023, with macroeconomic and market headwinds on our business resulting in our 
revenue and Non-GAAP Operating Income performance falling short of the CC’s pre-established goals for executive 
compensation. The CC intended for the Fiscal 2024 performance goals to be rigorous and uncertain, considered the 
likelihood of a range of business scenarios that could impact our performance, and acknowledged that sustaining the 
same level of financial performance achieved during Fiscal 2023 under the then-current business conditions would 
require significant effort by our NEOs. Recognizing an increasingly complex macroeconomic environment, the CC set 
Base Compensation Plan goals close to actual performance for Fiscal 2023, and set Stretch Compensation Plan goals at 
levels that would require year-over-year growth representing extremely strong financial performance. In addition, given 
the uncertain operating environment, the CC determined to provide our NEOs with an opportunity to earn Additional SY 
PSUs and chose Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin as the related performance metric to motivate our NEOs to focus 
on operational efficiencies and providing value-added products. Specifically, assuming Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating 
Income was achieved at or above Base Compensation Plan, Additional SY PSUs, capped at 50% of each NEO’s SY PSU 
target equity opportunity, could be earned if the Company achieved at least a Threshold Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross 
Margin. Because the Additional SY PSUs represented an upside payout opportunity, the CC set both the Fiscal 2024 NonGAAP Gross Margin Threshold and the Stretch Compensation Plan goals, well above actual Fiscal 2023 performance. 
Fiscal 2024 performance metrics and goals for NEO pay were as set forth below: 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Metric
Revenue
Non-GAAP Operating Income and for 
Additional SY PSUs only, Non-GAAP 
Gross Margin
TSR relative to the S&P 500
Timeframe
1 year
1 year
3 years
CC’s Rationale for Metric
Drives value, contributes 
to Company’s long-term 
success
Focuses on growth in 
new and existing 
markets
Distinct, separate metric 
from Non-GAAP 
Operating Income
Drives value, contributes to Company’s 
long-term success 
Non-GAAP Operating Income reflects our 
annual revenue generation and effective 
operating expense management 
Non-GAAP Gross Margin emphasizes 
profitability in critical market platforms 
Distinct, separate metrics from revenue
Aligns directly with long-term 
shareholder value creation
Provides comparison of our stock price 
performance, including dividends, 
against a capital market index in which 
we compete
Relative performance goal accounts for 
macroeconomic factors impacting the 
market
PERFORMANCE GOALS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Fiscal 2024 
Revenue
Payout as a 
% of Target 
Opportunity 
(1)
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (2)
Shares Eligible to Vest as a % 
of Target Opportunity (1)
Fiscal 2022 
to 2024 
3-Year 
Relative TSR 
(3)
Shares 
Eligible to 
Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity 
(1)
Threshold
$20.0 billion
20%
$4.6 billion
20%
25th 
percentile
25%
Base Compensation 
Plan 
$26.0 billion
100%
$9.4 billion
100%
50th 
percentile
100%
Stretch 
Compensation Plan
$29.5 billion
200%
$11.9 billion
CEO 150% 
Other NEOs 200%
Additional 50% possible for 
all NEOs (4)
75th 
percentile
CEO 150% 
Other NEOs 
200%

(1)
For achievement between Threshold and Base Compensation Plan, or alternatively between Base Compensation Plan and Stretch Compensation Plan, 
payouts would be determined using straight-line interpolation. Achievement less than Threshold would result in no payout, and exceeding Stretch 
Compensation Plan would result in the capped maximum payout.
(2)
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(3)
MY PSUs covering the Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 performance period were granted in Fiscal 2022. MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 cover the Fiscal 
2024 to Fiscal 2026 performance period and consist of the same performance goal structure and payout opportunities.
(4)
Upon the Company achieving at least Base Compensation Plan for Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income, (i) if the Company also achieves Fiscal 
2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin between Threshold of 66.5% and Stretch Compensation Plan of 68.5%, the number of eligible Additional SY PSUs will be 
equal to an amount linearly interpolated between 0% and 50% of the SY PSU target opportunities for each NEO, and (ii) if the Company also achieves 
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin of 68.5% or more, the number of eligible Additional SY PSUs will be capped at 50% of the SY PSU target 
opportunities for each NEO. 
Each of the performance goal levels as described above were set by the CC with the following objectives: 
Threshold was uncertain, but attainable and high enough to create value; represented an appropriately decelerated 
payout for performance below Base Compensation Plan. For Additional SY PSUs, Threshold was uncertain but 
attainable with significant effort and execution success, as it represented an upside payout opportunity
Base Compensation Plan was uncertain but attainable with significant effort and execution success; included 
budgeted investments in future businesses and revenue growth considering macroeconomic conditions and 
reasonable but challenging growth estimates for ongoing and new businesses
Stretch Compensation Plan required exceptional achievement; only possible with strong market factors and a very 
high level of management execution and corporate performance
Fiscal 2024 Performance Achievement
As a result of record performance on the strength of our Data Center market platform, and generative AI and accelerated 
computing driving significant upside in demand for our products, each of revenue, Non-GAAP Operating Income and NonGAAP Gross Margin for Fiscal 2024 exceeded their respective Stretch Compensation Plan goals, as did our Fiscal 2022 to 
Fiscal 2024 3-year TSR relative to the S&P 500. 
In March 2024, the CC certified the Company’s performance achievement with the following payouts:
PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENT AND PAYOUTS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs (1)
Performance 
Achievement for Period 
Ended Fiscal 2024 (2)
$60.9 billion revenue
$37.1 billion Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (3)
For Additional SY PSUs only, 
73.8% Non-GAAP Gross Margin (3)
3-year TSR of 276%
99th percentile relative to S&P 

Payout as % of Target 
Opportunity
200%
With Additional SY PSUs, CEO 200% 
Other NEOs 250% (4)
CEO 150% 
Other NEOs 200% (5)
(1)
Represents performance achievement and payout of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2022, with a performance period measured from the start of Fiscal 
2022 to the end of Fiscal 2024.
(2)
Revenue is GAAP revenue, as the Company reports in its SEC filings. Non-GAAP Operating Income is GAAP operating income, as the Company reports 
in its SEC filings, excluding stock-based compensation expense, acquisition termination cost, acquisition-related and other costs, restructuring costs 
and other, IP-related and legal settlement costs, and other. Non-GAAP Gross Margin is GAAP gross margin, as the Company reports in its SEC filings, 
excluding acquisition-related and other costs, stock-based compensation expense, and IP-related costs. Consistent with prior years, 3-year TSR for 
purposes of the MY PSUs represents cumulative stock price appreciation, with dividends reinvested, and is measured based on the average closing 
stock price for the 60 trading days preceding the start, and preceding and including the last day, of the 3-year performance period. This averaging 
period mitigates the impact of one-day or short-term stock price fluctuations at the beginning or end of the performance period.
(3)
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(4)
25% of the eligible SY PSU shares vested on March 20, 2024, approximately one year after grant, and 6.25% will vest every quarter thereafter for the 
next three years.
(5)
100% of the eligible MY PSUs vested on March 20, 2024.
Achievement of goals for MY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2024 will be determined after the applicable 
performance periods conclude in January 2025 and January 2026, respectively.
Fiscal 2024 Target Compensation Actions and Performance-Based Payouts
The CC’s target Fiscal 2024 compensation actions are summarized below for each NEO, reflecting the target variable cash 
and equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver, as well as the variable cash earned and PSUs which became eligible to 
vest. The performance for MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 will be determined after the end of Fiscal 2026. 
The CC considered the factors set forth in Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation above to set total target 
pay opportunity for each NEO, which are described in Compensation Actions and Achievements - Setting Executive 

Compensation Values above. As described above, the CC intended for each NEO’s target pay to be flat with Fiscal 2023, 
with no increases to base salaries or variable cash opportunities and no intended increases to target equity opportunities. 
The target equity opportunities reported in the tables below reflect the number of shares subject to each NEO’s equity 
awards granted in Fiscal 2024, assuming Base Compensation Plan achievement for PSUs, multiplied by the 30-calendar 
day trailing average closing price of our common stock that the CC used in approving such equity awards, as described 
above in Determining Equity Award Amounts, and excluded the potential impact of the Additional SY PSUs that could be 
earned. These values reflect minor differences from the respective target equity opportunities approved in Fiscal 2023 
and reported in our proxy statement last year as a result of rounding in our share calculation methodology and not as a 
result of an intent by the CC to increase target equity opportunities. The target equity opportunities reported below 
differ from the values reported in the Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table, which, in 
accordance with SEC rules, reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of each NEO’s equity awards calculated in 
accordance with ASC 718 based on the single day closing price of our common stock on the date of grant and, for PSUs, 
assuming a probable outcome of the applicable performance conditions.
Jen-Hsun Huang
President & CEO
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2024 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
1,000,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Variable Cash
 
2,000,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2024 revenue exceeded Stretch Compensation Plan 
goal, resulting in 200% payout under Variable Cash Plan 
($4,000,000) 
 Cash
 
3,000,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
SY PSUs
 
10,999,969 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 50,491 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 
2024, with potential to earn Additional SY 
PSUs
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in 150% of target 
opportunity becoming eligible to vest
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in Additional SY PSUs 
equal to 50% of target opportunity becoming eligible to vest 
(total 100,982 shares)
MY PSUs
 
10,999,969 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 50,491 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 

Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2022 achieved at Stretch Compensation 
Plan level, resulting in 150% of target opportunity (105,060 
shares) becoming eligible to vest
 Equity
 
21,999,938 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
TOTAL
 
24,999,938 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
Colette M. Kress
EVP & CFO
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2024 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
900,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Variable Cash
 
300,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2024 revenue exceeded Stretch Compensation Plan 
goal, resulting in 200% payout Variable Cash Plan ($600,000)
 Cash
 
1,200,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
SY PSUs
 
5,939,953 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 27,265 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 
2024, with potential to earn Additional SY 
PSUs
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in 200% of target 
opportunity becoming eligible to vest
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in Additional SY PSUs 
equal to 50% of target opportunity becoming eligible to vest 
(total 68,162 shares)
MY PSUs
 
539,857 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 2,478 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 

Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2022 achieved at Stretch Compensation 
Plan level, resulting in 200% of target opportunity (6,160 
shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
4,319,946 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 19,829 
shares granted in Fiscal 2024
 Equity
 
10,799,756 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
TOTAL
 
11,999,756 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target

Ajay K. Puri
EVP, Worldwide Field 
Operations
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2024 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
950,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Variable Cash
 
650,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2024 revenue exceeded Stretch Compensation Plan 
goal, resulting in 200% payout under Variable Cash Plan 
($1,300,000)
 Cash
 
1,600,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
SY PSUs
 
5,719,914 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 26,255 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 
2024, with potential to earn Additional SY 
PSUs
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in 200% of target 
opportunity becoming eligible to vest
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in Additional SY PSUs 
equal to 50% of target opportunity becoming eligible to vest 
(total 65,637 shares)
MY PSUs
 
519,814 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 2,386 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 

Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2022 achieved at Stretch Compensation 
Plan level, resulting in 200% of target opportunity (5,880 
shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
4,159,819 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 19,094 
shares granted in Fiscal 2024
 Equity
 
10,399,547 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
TOTAL
 
11,999,547 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
Debora Shoquist
EVP, Operations
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2024 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
850,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Variable Cash
 
250,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2024 revenue exceeded Stretch Compensation Plan 
goal, resulting in 200% payout under Variable Cash Plan 
($500,000)
 Cash
 
1,100,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
SY PSUs
 
4,894,878 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 22,468 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 
2024, with potential to earn Additional SY 
PSUs
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in 200% of target 
opportunity becoming eligible to vest
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in Additional SY PSUs 
equal to 50% of target opportunity becoming eligible to vest 
(total 56,170 shares)
MY PSUs
 
444,870 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 2,042 shares 
target opportunity granted in Fiscal 2024
Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2022 achieved at Stretch Compensation 
Plan level, resulting in 200% of target opportunity (4,832 
shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
3,559,832 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 16,340 
shares granted in Fiscal 2024
 Equity
 
8,899,580 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
TOTAL
 
9,999,580 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
Timothy S. Teter
EVP, General Counsel 
& Secretary
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2024 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2024 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
850,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Variable Cash
 
250,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2024 revenue exceeded Stretch Compensation Plan 
goal, resulting in 200% payout under Variable Cash Plan 
($500,000)
 Cash
 
1,100,000 
Flat with Fiscal 2023
SY PSUs
 
4,894,878 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 22,468 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 
2024, with potential to earn Additional SY 
PSUs
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Operating Income exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in 200% of target 
opportunity becoming eligible to vest
Fiscal 2024 Non-GAAP Gross Margin exceeded Stretch 
Compensation Plan goal, resulting in Additional SY PSUs 
equal to 50% of target opportunity becoming eligible to vest 
(total 56,170 shares)
MY PSUs
 
444,870 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 2,042 
shares target opportunity granted in Fiscal 

Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2024 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs 
granted in Fiscal 2022 achieved at Stretch Compensation 
Plan level, resulting in 200% of target opportunity (4,832 
shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
3,559,832 
Flat with Fiscal 2023, resulting in 16,340 
shares granted in Fiscal 2024
 Equity
 
8,899,580 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target
TOTAL
 
9,999,580 
Flat with Fiscal 2023 target

Additional Executive Compensation Practices, Policies, and Procedures 
Other Compensation and Benefits
Due to the high profile of our CEO, and in accordance with the independently-assessed executive security program 
established by our Board, NVIDIA provides Mr. Huang with security protection. In Fiscal 2024, Mr. Huang’s security 
arrangements included (i) residential security and consultation fees, (ii) security monitoring services, and (iii) car and driver 
services. Mr. Huang’s Fiscal 2024 security costs increased compared to Fiscal 2023, which had covered only a partial year 
of residential security and limited travel. 
We do not consider these additional security arrangements to be a personal benefit to Mr. Huang because they arise 
from the nature of his employment responsibilities and the related costs have been incurred as required by the Board’s 
executive security program. However, the aggregate incremental costs to NVIDIA of providing personal security 
arrangements for Mr. Huang have been reported in the “All Other Compensation” column of the Summary Compensation 
Table below. 
We believe these arrangements and costs are reasonable, appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of NVIDIA and 
its stockholders, as they enable Mr. Huang to focus on his duties to the Company while reducing security threats, and 
therefore, mitigate risks to our business. The CC has implemented an annual process to provide oversight of the nature 
and cost of executive security measures. In evaluating potential perquisites, we consider many factors, including the cost 
to the Company relative to the anticipated benefit to our business, perceived value to our executives, comparative data 
from our peers, as well as other corporate governance and employee relations factors.
We also provide medical, vision, dental, and accidental death and disability insurance, matches for health savings account 
contributions, as well as time off and paid holidays, for our NEOs on the same basis as our other employees. Like other 
employees, our NEOs are eligible to participate in our ESPP, unless otherwise prohibited by the rules of the Internal 
Revenue Service, and our 401(k) plan, which included a Company match of salary deferral contributions of up to $9,000 
for calendar 2023 and up to $11,500 for calendar 2024. For Fiscal 2024 (which consisted of most of calendar year 2023 
and a portion of calendar year 2024), each NEO received a 401(k) match in the amount of $9,000. We believe these 
benefits are consistent with benefits provided by companies with which we compete for executive-level talent. We do 
not provide any other perquisites or other personal benefits to our NEOs.
Equity Grant Timing Practices
The CC approves all equity award grants to our NEOs on or before the grant date. The CC’s general practice is to 
complete its annual executive compensation review and determine performance goals and target compensation for our 
NEOs, and then equity awards are granted to NEOs and become effective. This process is further described in How We 
Determine Executive Compensation above. Accordingly, annual equity awards are typically granted to our NEOs in March. 
On occasion, the CC may grant equity awards outside of our annual grant cycle for new hires, promotions, recognition, 
retention or other purposes. While the CC has discretionary authority to approve equity awards to our NEOs outside of 
the cycle described above, the CC does not have a practice or policy of granting equity awards in anticipation of the 
release of material nonpublic information and, in any event, we do not time the release of material non-public information 
in coordination with grants of equity awards in a manner that intentionally benefits our NEOs.
Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Board believes that executive officers should hold a significant equity interest in NVIDIA. Our Corporate Governance 
Policies require the CEO to hold shares of our common stock valued at six times his base salary, and our other NEOs to 
hold shares of our common stock valued at the NEO’s respective base salary. Shares that count toward the ownership 
guidelines include shares held by the NEO, shares held in trust for the NEO and his/her immediate family, and vested but 
deferred shares, but not unvested or unexercised equity awards. NEOs have up to five years from appointment to reach 
the ownership threshold. The stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align NEO interests with stockholder 
interests. Each NEO currently exceeds the stock ownership requirements. 
Compensation Recovery Policy
We have maintained a Compensation Recovery Policy since 2009 and amended it in November 2023 to comply with 
Nasdaq’s listing standards. Our policy requires the Company to recover certain incentive compensation provided to 
current or former executive officers in connection with certain restatements of financial statements, if such 
compensation exceeds the amount that the executive officers would have received based on the restated financial 
statements, subject to limited exceptions. 
Tax and Accounting Implications
Under Section 162(m), compensation paid to each of the Company’s “covered employees” that exceeds $1 million per 
taxable year is generally non-deductible, excluding certain performance-based compensation that qualifies for an 
exception pursuant to the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 

The CC looks at a variety of factors in making its decisions and retains the flexibility to provide compensation for the 
NEOs in a manner consistent with the goals of the Company’s executive compensation program and the best interests of 
the Company and its stockholders, which may include providing for compensation that is not deductible by the Company 
due to the deduction limit under Section 162(m). The CC also retains the flexibility to modify compensation that was 
initially intended to be exempt from the deduction limit under Section 162(m) if it determines that such modifications are 
consistent with the Company’s business needs.
Our CC also considers the impact of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, and in general, our executive plans and 
programs are designed to comply with the requirements of that section to avoid the possible adverse tax consequences 
that may arise from non-compliance.
Under ASC 718, the Company is required to estimate and record an expense for each award of equity compensation over 
the vesting period of the award. We record share-based compensation expense on an ongoing basis according to ASC 
718.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
A reconciliation between our GAAP gross margin and Non-GAAP gross margin is as follows (in millions): 
Fiscal 2024
GAAP gross profit
$44,301
GAAP gross margin 
 72.7 %
 Acquisition-related and other costs 

 Stock-based compensation expense

 IP-related costs 

Non-GAAP gross profit
44,959
Non-GAAP Gross Margin 
 73.8 %
A reconciliation between our GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income is as follows (in millions):
Fiscal 2024
Fiscal 2023
GAAP operating income
$32,972
$4,224
Stock-based compensation expense
3,549
2,710
Acquisition-related and other costs

IP-related and legal settlement costs

Restructuring costs and other

Acquisition termination cost
1,353
Other
(10)

Non-GAAP Operating Income
$37,134
$9,040
We believe these non-GAAP financial measures enhance stockholders’ overall understanding of our historical financial 
performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a 
substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP financial measures may be 
different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. 

Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans
Company management performed an assessment of the Company’s compensation programs and policies for Fiscal 2024 
with the oversight of the CC, as generally applicable to our employees to ascertain any potential material risks that may 
be created by our compensation programs. The assessment focused on programs with variability of payout and the 
ability of participants to directly affect payout and the controls over participant action and payout—specifically, the 
Company’s variable cash compensation, equity compensation, and sales incentive compensation programs. We identified 
the key terms of these programs, potential risks they may present, and specific risk mitigation features.
The CC considered the findings of the assessment described above and concluded that our compensation programs, 
which are structured to recognize both short-term and long-term contributions to the Company, do not create risks 
which are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 
The CC believes that the following compensation design features mitigate against risk: 
Our compensation program encourages our employees to remain focused on both our short-term and longterm goals, and balances incentives by using a mix of base salary and variable pay
We design our variable cash and PSU compensation programs for executives so that payouts are based on 
achievement of corporate performance targets, and we cap the potential award payout
We have internal controls over our financial accounting and reporting which are used to measure and 
determine the eligible compensation awards under our Variable Cash Plan and our SY PSUs
Financial plan target goals and final awards under our Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs, and Additional SY PSUs are 
approved by the CC and informed by the annual financial plan approved by the Board each year
MY PSUs are designed with a relative goal
We have a compensation recovery policy applicable to executive officers that requires NVIDIA to recover 
certain incentive compensation paid in connection with certain accounting restatements
The CC monitors burn rate and overhang
All executive officer equity awards have multi-year vesting
We have stock ownership guidelines that we believe are reasonable and are designed to align our executive 
officers’ interests with those of our stockholders
Our insider trading policy prohibits hedging, pledging, using margin accounts, and trading in derivatives 
involving our common stock which prevents our employees from insulating themselves from the effects of 
NVIDIA stock price performance

Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022
The following table summarizes information regarding the compensation earned by our NEOs during Fiscal 2024, 2023, 
and 2022. Fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022 were 52-week years. 
Name and Principal Position
Fiscal
Year
Salary
($)
Stock
Awards 
($) (1)
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($) (2)
All Other
Compensation
($)
Total
($)
Jen-Hsun Huang

996,514
26,676,415
 
4,000,000 
 
2,494,973 (3)
34,167,902
President and CEO

996,832
19,666,382
 
 
693,710 
21,356,924

996,216
18,660,407
 
4,000,000 
 
81,038 
23,737,661
Colette M. Kress

896,863
11,756,027
 
600,000 
 
13,902 (4)
13,266,792
Executive Vice President and CFO

897,149
10,004,677
 
 
15,402 
10,917,228

896,595
8,269,020
 
600,000 
 
10,312 
9,775,927
Ajay K. Puri

946,689
11,320,353
 
1,300,000 
 
48,408 (4)
13,615,450
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field 
Operations

946,990
9,633,991
 
 
46,717 
10,627,698

946,406
7,892,819
 
1,300,000 
 
33,493 
10,172,718
Debora Shoquist

847,037
9,687,599
 
500,000 
 
24,229 (4)
11,058,865
Executive Vice President, Operations

847,307
8,244,465
 
 
23,478 
9,115,250

846,784
6,483,557
 
500,000 
 
21,478 
7,851,819
Timothy S. Teter

847,037
9,687,599
 
500,000 
 
13,902 (4)
11,048,538
Executive Vice President, General Counsel 
and Secretary

847,307
8,244,465
 
 
15,402 
9,107,174

846,784
6,483,557
 
500,000 
 
12,402 
7,842,743
(1)
Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant 
date fair value calculated in accordance with ASC 718 for the respective fiscal year for grants of RSUs, SY PSUs, and MY PSUs, as applicable. The 
assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based 
Compensation in our Form 10-K. With regard to the stock awards with performance-based vesting conditions, the reported grant date fair value 
assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base Compensation Plan for SY PSUs and MY PSUs, determined in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards.
Assuming Stretch Compensation Plan performance for SY PSUs (including Additional SY PSUs for Fiscal 2024 only) and MY PSUs in each of Fiscal 
2024, 2023, and 2022, and a stock price equal to the grant date fair value of the SY PSUs and MY PSUs, the value of stock awards granted would be:
Jen-Hsun Huang
Colette M. Kress
Ajay K. Puri
Debora Shoquist
Timothy S. Teter
Fiscal 
Year
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)

 23,130,937 
 22,666,270 
 15,613,188 
 1,937,350 
 15,034,811 
 1,865,423 
 12,866,300 
 1,596,476 
 12,866,300 
 1,596,476 

 15,142,257 
 14,357,535 
 10,902,118 
 1,178,299 
 10,498,554 
 1,134,240 
 8,984,170 
 
970,901 
 8,984,170 
 970,901 

 13,897,074 
 14,093,536 
 
8,968,415 
 1,047,816 
 
8,559,942 
 1,000,188 
 7,031,872 
 
821,923 
 7,031,872 
 821,923 
(2)
As applicable, reflects amounts earned in Fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022 and paid in March or April of each respective year pursuant to the respective 
Variable Cash Plan. For further information, please see our CD&A above.
(3)
Reflects (a) the aggregate incremental costs to the Company of residential security and consultation fees (in the amount of $2,229,935, reflecting the 
full cost to the Company), security monitoring services, and car and driver services, (b) a $9,000 match of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan, and 
(c) $21,904 in life insurance premiums. The 401(k) contribution match and insurance coverage are available to all eligible NVIDIA employees. 
(4)
Reflects matches of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan and imputed income from life insurance coverage. These benefits are available to all 
eligible NVIDIA employees. For Fiscal 2024, the match of 401(k) contributions was $9,000 for each of Ms. Kress, Mr. Puri, Ms. Shoquist, and Mr. Teter; 
and the dollar values of life insurance premiums were $4,902 for Ms. Kress, $39,408 for Mr. Puri, $15,229 for Ms. Shoquist, and $4,902 for Mr. Teter.

Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2024
The following table provides information regarding all grants of plan-based awards that were made to or earned by our 
NEOs during Fiscal 2024. The information in this table supplements the dollar value of stock awards set forth in the 
Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Years 2024, 2023, and 2022. The PSU and RSU awards set forth in the following 
table were made under our 2007 Plan. PSUs are eligible to vest based on performance against pre-established criteria. 
All equity awards listed are subject to service-based vesting.
Name
Grant
Date
Approval
Date
Estimated Possible Payouts Under 
Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards (1)
Estimated Future Payouts Under 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards (2)
All Other 
Stock
Awards: 
Number of 
Shares of 
Stock
or Units (#) (3)
Grant Date
Fair Value
of Stock
Awards ($) 
(4)
Type of 
Award
Threshold 
($)
Target 
($)
Maximum 
($)
Threshold 
(#)
Target 
(#)
Maximum 
(#)
Jen-Hsun 
Huang
SY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
10,098
50,491
100,982
11,565,468
MY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
12,622
50,491
75,736
15,110,946
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/2/23
3/2/23
400,000
2,000,000
4,000,000
Colette 
M. Kress
SY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
5,453
27,265
68,162
6,245,321
MY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23

2,478
4,956
968,675
RSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
19,829
4,542,031
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/2/23
3/2/23
60,000
300,000
600,000
Ajay K. 
Puri
SY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
5,251
26,255
65,637
6,013,970
MY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23

2,386
4,772
932,711
RSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
19,094
4,373,672
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/2/23
3/2/23
130,000
650,000
1,300,000
Debora 
Shoquist
SY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
4,493
22,468
56,170
5,146,520
MY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23

2,042
4,084
798,238
RSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
16,340
3,742,840
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/2/23
3/2/23
50,000
250,000
500,000
Timothy 
S. Teter
SY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
4,493
22,468
56,170
5,146,520
MY PSU
3/10/23
3/2/23

2,042
4,084
798,238
RSU
3/10/23
3/2/23
16,340
3,742,840
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/2/23
3/2/23
50,000
250,000
500,000
(1)
Represents range of awards payable under our Fiscal 2024 Variable Cash Plan.
(2)
Represents range of shares eligible to be earned with respect to PSUs. Threshold and Target payouts for SY PSUs exclude the Additional SY PSUs; 
Maximum payouts for SY PSUs include the Additional SY PSUs.
(3)
Represents RSUs granted.
(4)
Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant 
date fair value calculated in accordance with ASC 718 for the awards. The assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth 
under Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K. With regard to the stock awards with 
performance-based vesting conditions, the reported grant date fair value assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base Compensation Plan 
performance for SY PSUs and MY PSUs, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 

Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 28, 2024
The following table presents information regarding outstanding equity awards held by our NEOs as of January 28, 2024. 
Name
Stock Awards
Number of
Units of Stock
That Have
Not Vested (#)
Market Value of Units of 
Stock That Have Not
Vested ($) (1)
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: 
Number of Unearned Shares 
That Have Not Vested (#)
Equity Incentive Plan 
Awards: Market Value of 
Unearned Shares That 
Have Not Vested ($) (1)
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
14,520 (2)
8,861,701
 
 
105,060 (3)
64,119,169
 
 
32,832 (4)
20,037,698
 
 
100,982 (5)
61,630,324
 
 
 
67,013 (6)
40,898,704
 
 
75,736 (7)
46,222,438
Colette M. Kress
 
2,636 (8)
1,608,777
 
 
7,248 (2)
4,423,527
 
 
6,160 (3)
3,759,510
 
 
21,192 (4)
12,933,690
 
 
7,704 (9)
4,701,828
 
 
9,870 (10)
6,023,760
 
 
16,112 (11)
9,833,315
 
 
68,162 (5)
41,599,950
 
 
 
4,386 (6)
2,676,820
 
 
4,956 (7)
3,024,696
Ajay K. Puri
 
2,480 (8)
1,513,569
 
 
6,816 (2)
4,159,873
 
 
5,880 (3)
3,588,623
 
 
20,224 (4)
12,342,909
 
 
7,356 (9)
4,489,440
 
 
9,504 (10)
5,800,386
 
 
15,514 (11)
9,468,349
 
 
65,637 (5)
40,058,917
 
 
 
4,222 (6)
2,576,729
 
 
4,772 (7)
2,912,399
Debora Shoquist
 
2,288 (8)
1,396,389
 
 
6,288 (2)
3,837,629
 
 
4,832 (3)
2,949,018
 
 
16,616 (4)
10,140,911
 
 
6,040 (9)
3,686,272
 
 
8,133 (10)
4,963,651
 
 
13,277 (11)
8,103,086
 
 
56,170 (5)
34,281,113
 
 
 
3,614 (6)
2,205,660
 
 
4,084 (7)
2,492,506
Timothy S. Teter
 
1,512 (8)
922,789
 
 
4,160 (2)
2,538,890
 
 
4,832 (3)
2,949,018
 
 
16,616 (4)
10,140,911
 
 
6,040 (9)
3,686,272
 
 
8,133 (10)
4,963,651
 
 
13,277 (11)
8,103,086
 
 
56,170 (5)
34,281,113
 
 
 
3,614 (6)
2,205,660
 
 
4,084 (7)
2,492,506
(1)
Calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs or PSUs that have not vested or have not been earned, as applicable, by the closing price ($610.31) of 

(2)
The PSU was earned on January 31, 2021, based on achievement of a performance goal. The PSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 17, 2021, 
and vested as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the PSU was fully vested on March 20, 2024.
(3)
The PSU was earned on January 28, 2024, based on achievement of a performance goal. The PSU vested as to 100% of the shares on March 20, 2024.
(4)
The PSU was earned on January 30, 2022, based on achievement of a performance goal. The PSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 16, 2022, 
and vested as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the PSU will be fully vested on March 19, 
2025.

(5)
Represents the number of shares subject to the PSU that became eligible to vest, determined as of January 28, 2024, assuming achievement of 
Stretch Compensation Plan performance goals. The PSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 20, 2024, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every 
three months thereafter over the next three years such that the PSU will be fully vested on March 17, 2027.
(6)
Represents shares that could be earned upon achievement of Stretch Compensation Plan goals, based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from 
January 31, 2022 through January 26, 2025. If the performance goal is achieved, 100% of the shares earned will vest on March 19, 2025. If the 
Threshold performance goal is achieved, 11,169 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 548 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 528 shares will be earned 
by Mr. Puri, 452 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 452 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter. If the Base Compensation Plan performance goal is 
achieved, 44,675 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 2,193 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 2,111 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 1,807 shares will 
be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 1,807 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter.
(7)
Represents shares that could be earned upon achievement of Stretch Compensation Plan goals, based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from 
January 30, 2023 through January 25, 2026. If the performance goal is achieved, 100% of the shares earned will vest on March 18, 2026. If the 
Threshold performance goal is achieved, 12,622 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 619 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 596 shares will be earned 
by Mr. Puri, 510 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 510 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter. If the Base Compensation Plan performance goal is 
achieved, 50,491 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 2,478 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 2,386 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 2,042 shares will 
be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 2,042 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter.
(8)
The RSU vested as to 25% on March 17, 2021, and vested as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU was fully vested on March 20, 2024.
(9)
The RSU vested as to 6.25% on June 16, 2021, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 19, 2025.
(10) The RSU vested as to 6.25% on June 15, 2022, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 18, 2026.
(11) The RSU vested as to 6.25% on June 21, 2023, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 17, 2027.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2024
The following table shows information regarding option exercises by, and stock acquired upon vesting for, our NEOs 
during Fiscal 2024.
Name
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Exercise (#)
Value
Realized
on Exercise ($) 
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Vesting (#) (1)
Value
Realized
on Vesting ($) (2)
Jen-Hsun Huang
475,000
217,327,151
 
211,384 (3)
64,013,433
Colette M. Kress
 
86,387 (4)
31,846,207
Ajay K. Puri
 
82,280 (5)
30,288,530
Debora Shoquist
 
71,938 (6)
26,545,357
Timothy S. Teter
 
56,402 (7)
21,019,182
(1)
Represents the gross number of shares acquired on vesting. Shares were withheld from these amounts to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(2)
Represents the gross number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair market value of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the 
date of vesting.
(3)
Includes an aggregate of 104,190 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(4)
Includes an aggregate of 43,295 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(5)
Includes an aggregate of 40,185 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(6)
Includes an aggregate of 36,051 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(7)
Includes an aggregate of 29,843 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
Employment, Severance, and Change-in-Control Arrangements
Employment Agreements. Our executive officers are “at-will” employees and we do not have employment, severance, or 
change-in-control agreements with our executive officers.
Change-in-Control Arrangements. Our 2007 Plan provides that in the event of a corporate transaction or a change-incontrol, outstanding stock awards may be assumed, continued, or substituted by the surviving corporation. If the 
surviving corporation does not assume, continue, or substitute such stock awards, then (a) with respect to any stock 
awards that are held by individuals performing services for NVIDIA immediately prior to the effective time of the 
transaction, the vesting and exercisability provisions of such stock awards will be accelerated in full and such stock 
awards will be terminated if not exercised prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in-control, 
and (b) all other outstanding stock awards will be terminated if not exercised on or prior to the effective date of the 
corporate transaction or change-in-control. These change-in-control arrangements apply to stock awards held by our 
NEOs on the same basis as our other employees. 

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
Upon a change-in-control or certain other corporate transactions of NVIDIA, unvested RSUs, and PSUs will fully vest in 
some cases as described above under Employment, Severance, and Change-in-Control Arrangements—Change-in-Control 
Arrangements. The table below shows our estimates of the amount of the benefit each of our NEOs would have received 
if the unvested RSUs and PSUs held by them as of January 28, 2024 had become fully vested as a result of a change-incontrol, calculated by multiplying the number of unvested RSUs and PSUs held by the applicable NEO by the closing price 
($610.31) of NVIDIA’s common stock on January 26, 2024, the last trading day before the end of our Fiscal 2024, as 
reported by Nasdaq. 
Name
Unvested RSUs and PSUs at January 28, 2024 (#) (1)
Total Estimated Benefit ($) (1)
Jen-Hsun Huang
263,049
160,541,435
Colette M. Kress
99,778
60,895,511
Ajay K. Puri
95,586
58,337,092
Debora Shoquist
81,375
49,663,976
Timothy S. Teter
78,471
47,891,636
(1) With respect to unvested PSUs, the amounts in these columns assume performance at Base Compensation Plan with respect to SY PSUs granted in 
Fiscal 2024 (not including Additional SY PSUs) and with respect to MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2023, and Fiscal 2024, in accordance with 
SEC rules. The two tables below reflect the actual numbers of the SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 and MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2022 that became 
eligible to vest, based on our performance during the relevant performance period for such awards, as certified by our CC shortly after the end of 
Fiscal 2024. The values of the estimated and actual SY PSUs and MY PSUs in the table below were calculated by multiplying the applicable number of 
SY PSUs and MY PSUs held by each respective NEO and listed below, by the closing price ($610.31) of NVIDIA’s common stock on January 26, 2024, the 
last trading day before the end of our Fiscal 2024, as reported by Nasdaq. The actual SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 that became eligible to vest 
reflected in the table below include the Additional SY PSUs.
SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2024 - Actual Achievement (versus Base Compensation Plan Performance)
Name
Estimated SY PSUs Granted in 
Fiscal 2024 at Base 
Compensation Plan 
Performance (#)
Value of Estimated SY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2024 at Base 
Compensation Plan Performance 
($)
Actual SY PSUs Granted 
in Fiscal 2024 Eligible to 
Vest (#)
Value of Actual SY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2024 
Eligible to Vest ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang
50,491
30,815,162
100,982
61,630,324
Colette M. Kress
27,265
16,640,102
68,162
41,599,950
Ajay K. Puri
26,255
16,023,689
65,637
40,058,917
Debora Shoquist
22,468
13,712,445
56,170
34,281,113
Timothy S. Teter 
22,468
13,712,445
56,170
34,281,113
MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2022 - Actual Achievement (versus Base Compensation Plan Performance)
Name
Estimated MY PSUs Granted in 
Fiscal 2022 at Base 
Compensation Plan 
Performance (#)
Value of Estimated MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2022 at Base 
Compensation Plan Performance 
($)
Actual MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2022 
Eligible to Vest (#)
Value of Actual MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2022 
Eligible to Vest ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang
70,040
42,746,112
105,060
64,119,169
Colette M. Kress
3,080
1,879,755
6,160
3,759,510
Ajay K. Puri
2,940
1,794,311
5,880
3,588,623
Debora Shoquist
2,416
1,474,509
4,832
2,949,018
Timothy S. Teter 
2,416
1,474,509
4,832
2,949,018
The actual number of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2024 that will become eligible to vest will be determinable after January 26, 2025 and 
January 25, 2026, respectively, the ending dates of the applicable three-year measurement period for MY PSUs. 
Pay Ratio
We determined the ratio of: (a) the annual total compensation of our CEO to (b) the median of the annual total 
compensation of all our employees, except for our CEO, both calculated in accordance with the requirements of Item 
402(c)(2)(x) of Regulation S-K.
We determined our median employee for purposes of the pay ratio calculation for Fiscal 2024 by using a consistently 
applied compensation measure, which aggregated, for each employee employed by us on the last day of Fiscal 2024, or 
January 28, 2024: (i) target base salary as of January 28, 2024 (annualized for permanent employees who were employed 
by us for less than the entire fiscal year), (ii) variable cash earned during Fiscal 2024, and (iii) aggregate full grant date fair 
value of equity awards granted during Fiscal 2024, calculated in accordance with ASC 718 and assuming the probable 
outcome of the conditions at Base Compensation Plan for performance-based awards. Compensation paid in foreign 
currencies was converted to U.S. dollars based on exchange rates in effect on January 28, 2024. 

After applying the methodology described above, we determined the identity of our median employee for Fiscal 2024, 
whose Fiscal 2024 total compensation was $266,939. Our CEO’s Fiscal 2024 total compensation was $34,167,902. 
Therefore, our Fiscal 2024 CEO to median employee pay ratio was 128:1.
This pay ratio represents a reasonable estimate of the relationship between the compensation of our CEO and that of our 
median employee for Fiscal 2024, calculated in a manner consistent with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K and applicable 
guidance, which provide significant flexibility in how companies identify the median employee. Each company may use a 
different methodology, apply different exclusions, and make different assumptions. As a result, the pay ratio reported by 
other companies may not be comparable to ours. 
Pay Versus Performance
NVIDIA’s executive compensation program is guided by a pay for performance philosophy and is designed to align NEO 
pay with our stockholders’ interests. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our NEOs’ total compensation is based on the 
Company’s performance under certain corporate financial metric goals, which for Fiscal 2024 included annual revenue, 
annual Non-GAAP Operating Income, annual Non-GAAP Gross Margin, and 3-year TSR relative to the S&P 500. 
Amounts set forth below as “compensation actually paid,” or CAP, have been calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of 
Regulation S-K under the Securities Act, and do not represent the value of compensation actually paid to or received by 
our NEOs. For a discussion of our executive compensation program and philosophy, refer to our CD&A above.
The following table summarizes information regarding compensation for our NEOs, including CAP as well as certain 
financial performance metrics, during Fiscal 2024, 2023, 2022, and 2021. Fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022 were 52-week 
years. Fiscal 2021 was a 53-week year.
Value of Initial Fixed $100 
Investment Based on (7):
Fiscal 
Year
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
CEO 
($) (1) (2)
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to CEO 
($) (1) (3)
Average 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
Non-CEO NEOs 
($) (4) (5)
Average 
Compensation 
Actually Paid to 
Non-CEO NEOs 
($) (4) (6)
Total 
Shareholder 
Return
($)
Peer Group 
Total 
Shareholder 
Return
($) (8)
Net Income 
(in millions)
($)
Non-GAAP 
Operating 
Income
(in millions)
($) (9)

34,167,902
234,132,305
12,247,411
85,558,057
978.42
190.57
29,760
37,134

21,356,924
(4,118,947)
9,941,838
(1,364,661)
326.34
133.09
4,368
9,040

23,737,661
105,543,768
8,910,802
38,453,071
365.66
158.12
9,752
12,690

19,316,401
79,631,875
7,224,018
27,879,337
207.79
141.39
4,332
6,803
(1) For Fiscal 2024, 2023, 2022, and 2021, our CEO was Jen-Hsun Huang.
(2) The amounts in this column correspond with total compensation for our CEO as reported in our Summary Compensation Table above for the listed fiscal 
years.
(3) The amounts in this column represent CAP calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K during the listed fiscal years. Adjustments to the 
Summary Compensation Table total compensation for our CEO to arrive at CAP for Fiscal 2024 were as follows:
Reconciliation of Summary Compensation Table Total Compensation for CEO to CAP
Equity Award Adjustments
(Deduct):
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Add/(Deduct):
Fiscal 
Year
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total 
for CEO 
($)
Value of Equity 
Awards Reported 
in Summary 
Compensation 
Table
($) (a)
Year End Fair Value of 
Awards Granted 
During the Year which 
were Unvested at Year 
End
($) (b)
Year Over Year 
Change in Fair 
Value of 
Outstanding and 
Unvested Awards
($) (b)
Change in Fair Value 
of Awards Granted in 
Prior Years which 
Vested During the 
Year
($) (b)
Total Equity 
Award 
Adjustments
($) (b) (c)
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to CEO 
($)

34,167,902
(26,676,415)
107,502,462
98,169,212
20,969,145
226,640,818
234,132,305
(a) The amount in this column corresponds with the full grant date fair value, calculated in accordance with ASC 718, of “Stock Awards” for our CEO as 
reported in our Summary Compensation Table above for Fiscal 2024.
(b) The equity award adjustments were calculated in accordance with the SEC methodology for determining CAP for each year shown. The amounts in 
these columns were determined by reference to (i) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was complete as of or prior to the applicable 
year end date and for SY PSU awards, the closing price of our common stock on the applicable year end date, as reduced by the present value of 
dividends expected to be paid on the underlying shares during the requisite service period, or the closing price of our common stock on the 
applicable vesting dates, and (ii) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was not yet complete as of the applicable year end date, the fair 
value as calculated by a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the respective year end date, for the listed fiscal years.
(c) The valuation assumptions used to calculate fair values did not materially differ from those disclosed at the time of grant. Includes SY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2023 that failed to meet vesting conditions and were forfeited in Fiscal 2024 with a $0 fair value. 
(4) For Fiscal 2024, 2023, 2022, and 2021, our non-CEO NEOs were Colette M. Kress, Ajay K. Puri, Debora Shoquist, and Timothy S. Teter.
(5) The amounts in this column correspond with the average of the total compensation for our non-CEO NEOs as reported in our Summary Compensation 
Table above for the listed fiscal years.

(6) The amounts in this column represent average CAP calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K during the listed fiscal years. 
Adjustments to the Summary Compensation Table average total compensation for our non-CEO NEOs to arrive at average CAP for Fiscal 2024 were as 
follows:
Reconciliation of Summary Compensation Table Average Total Compensation for Non-CEO NEOs to CAP 
Equity Award Adjustments
(Deduct):
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Fiscal 
Year
Average 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total 
for Non-CEO 
NEOs 
($)
Value of 
Equity Awards 
Reported in 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table
($) (a)
Year End Fair 
Value of Awards 
Granted During 
the Year which 
were Unvested 
at Year End
($) (b)
Year Over 
Year Change 
in Fair Value 
Outstanding 
and Unvested 
Awards
($) (b)
Vesting Date 
Fair Value of 
Awards 
Granted and 
Vested During 
the Year
($) (b)
 Change in Fair 
Value of Awards 
Granted in Prior 
Years which 
Vested During 
the Year
($) (b)
Total Equity 
Award 
Adjustments
($) (b) (c)
Average 
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to Non-CEO 
NEOs
($)

12,247,411
(10,612,895)
49,133,208
21,801,378
1,491,886
11,497,069
83,923,540
85,558,057
(a) The amount in this column corresponds with the average of the full grant date fair value, calculated in accordance with ASC 718, of “Stock Awards” 
for our non-CEO NEOs as reported in our Summary Compensation Table above for Fiscal 2024.
(b) The equity award adjustments were calculated in accordance with the SEC methodology for determining CAP for each year shown. The amounts in 
these columns were determined by reference to (i) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was complete as of or prior to the applicable 
year end date, for RSU awards and for SY PSU awards, the closing price of our common stock on the applicable year end date, as reduced by the 
present value of dividends expected to be paid on the underlying shares during the requisite service period, or the closing price of our common 
stock on the applicable vesting dates, and (ii) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was not yet complete as of the applicable year end 
date, the fair value as calculated by a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the respective year end date, for the listed fiscal years.
(c) The valuation assumptions used to calculate fair values did not materially differ from those disclosed at the time of grant. Includes SY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2023 that failed to meet vesting conditions and were forfeited in Fiscal 2024, which resulted in no adjustment because the awards had a $0 
fair value as of the end of Fiscal 2023.
(7) TSR for each of Fiscal 2024, 2023, 2022, and 2021 is cumulative, reflecting the value of a fixed $100 investment beginning with the market close on 
January 24, 2020, the last trading day before our Fiscal 2021, through and including the end of the respective listed fiscal years.
(8) The Nasdaq 100 Index is the industry peer group we use for purposes of Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K. The separate peer group referenced by the CC 
for purposes of determining executive compensation is discussed above in CD&A.
(9) Our Company-Selected Measure, as required by Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K, is Non-GAAP Operating Income, which, in our assessment, represents the 
most important financial performance measure linking Fiscal 2024 NEO CAP to company performance. See Definitions above for a definition of NonGAAP Operating Income, and see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures above in our CD&A for a reconciliation between GAAP operating income 
and non-GAAP Operating Income.
Most Important Financial Performance Measures
The following table is an unranked list of the most important financial performance measures linking Fiscal 2024 NEO 
CAP to company performance: 
Financial Measures
Revenue
Non-GAAP Operating Income
Non-GAAP Gross Margin
3-Year TSR relative to the S&P 500
Refer to CD&A above for a description of how each of these performance measures impacts NEO compensation.

Relationships Between CAP and Financial Performance
The following graphs illustrate how CAP for our NEOs aligns with the Company’s financial performance measures as 
detailed in the Pay Versus Performance table above for each of Fiscal 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, as well as between the 
TSRs of NVIDIA and the Nasdaq100 Index, reflecting the value of a fixed $100 investment beginning with the market 
close on January 24, 2020, the last trading day before our Fiscal 2021, through and including the end of the respective 
listed fiscal years.
All information provided above under the “Pay Versus Performance” heading will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing 
of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or 
after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent the Company specifically 
incorporates such information by reference.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
For Fiscal 2024, the CC consisted of Messrs. Burgess, Coxe, Dabiri, and Jones and Ms. Hudson. No member of the CC is 
an officer or employee of NVIDIA, and none of our executive officers serve as a member of the board or compensation 
committee of any entity that has one or more executive officers serving as a member of our Board or CC. 
Compensation Committee Report
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the compensation programs of NVIDIA on behalf of the 
Board of Directors. In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, the Compensation Committee reviewed and discussed with 
management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis included in this proxy statement.
In reliance on the review and discussions referred to above, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Board of 
Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for 
the year ended January 28, 2024 and in this proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
Robert K. Burgess, Tench Coxe, John O. Dabiri, Dawn Hudson, and Harvey C. Jones

Proposal 3—Ratification of the Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2025
What am I voting on? Ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm for 
Fiscal 2025.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter.
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: Not applicable (because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes).
The AC has selected PwC, which has audited our financial statements annually since 2004, to serve as our independent 
registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 2025. Our lead audit partner at PwC will serve no more than five consecutive 
years in that role. Stockholder ratification of the AC’s selection of PwC is not required by our Bylaws. As a matter of good 
corporate governance, we are submitting the selection of PwC to our stockholders for ratification. If our stockholders do 
not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider whether or not to retain PwC. Even if the selection is ratified, the AC in its 
sole discretion may direct the appointment of a different independent registered public accounting firm at any time 
during the fiscal year if it determines that such a change would be in our best interests and those of our stockholders. 
The AC believes it is in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders to retain PwC.
We expect that a representative of PwC will attend the 2024 Meeting. The PwC representative will have an opportunity 
to make a statement at the 2024 Meeting if he or she so desires and will also be available to respond to appropriate 
stockholder questions.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered 
accounting firm for our fiscal year ending January 26, 2025.

Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The following is a summary of fees billed or expected to be billed by PwC for Fiscal 2024, and fees billed by PwC for Fiscal 
2023, for audit, audit related, tax, and other professional services during each fiscal year: 
Fiscal 2024
Fiscal 2023
Audit Fees (1)
6,686,412 
6,858,279 
Audit Related Fees (2)
 
804,258 
 
243,400 
Tax Fees (3) 
 
1,164,399 
 
1,189,263 
All Other Fees (4)
 
352,000 
 
17,858 
Total Fees
9,007,069 
8,308,800 
(1)
For the audit of our consolidated financial statements, including the audit of our internal control over financial reporting, review of our quarterly 
financial statements and annual reports, review of SEC registration statements and related consents, and fees related to statutory audits of some of 
our international entities.
(2)
For a review of select sustainability metrics, system and organization controls reporting, and other attestation services.
(3)
For tax compliance, consulting, and tax audit defense services.
(4)
For products or services other than those referenced above, including a cybersecurity maturity assessment and subscription to accounting research 
software.
All services provided for Fiscal 2024 and 2023 described above were pre-approved by the AC or the AC Chairperson 
through the authority granted to him by the AC, which is described below. Our AC determined that the rendering of 
services other than audit services by PwC was compatible with maintaining PwC’s independence.
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures
The AC has adopted policies and procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services rendered 
by our independent registered public accounting firm. The policy generally permits pre-approvals of specified permissible 
services in the defined categories of audit services, audit-related services, and tax services up to specified amounts. Preapproval may also be given as part of the AC’s approval of the scope of the engagement of our independent registered 
public accounting firm or on an individual case-by-case basis before the independent registered public accounting firm is 
engaged to provide each service. In some cases, the full AC provides pre-approval for up to a year related to a particular 
defined task or scope. In other cases, the AC has delegated power to the AC Chairperson to pre-approve additional audit 
and non-audit services if the need for the service was unanticipated and approval is required prior to the next scheduled 
meeting of the AC. The AC Chairperson then communicates such pre-approval to the full AC at its next meeting. 

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
The material in this report is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC, and is not to be incorporated by 
reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof and 
irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent specifically incorporated by 
reference therein.
The Audit Committee, or AC, oversees accounting, financial reporting, internal control over financial reporting, financial 
practices, and audit activities of NVIDIA and its subsidiaries. The AC reviews the results and scope of the audit and other 
services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm and reviews financial statements and the 
accounting policies followed by NVIDIA prior to the issuance of the financial statements with both management and the 
independent registered public accounting firm.
Management is responsible for the financial reporting process, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, the system of internal control 
over financial reporting, and the procedures designed to facilitate compliance with accounting standards and applicable 
laws and regulations. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or PwC, our independent registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 
2024, was responsible for performing an independent audit of the consolidated financial statements and issuing a report 
on the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of 
January 28, 2024. PwC’s judgments as to the quality, not just the acceptability, of our accounting principles and such 
other matters are required to be disclosed to the AC under applicable standards. The AC oversees these processes. Also, 
the AC has ultimate authority and responsibility to select, evaluate and, when appropriate, terminate the independent 
registered public accounting firm. The AC approves audit fees and non-audit services provided by and fees paid to the 
independent registered public accounting firm.

evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness, and quality of our system of internal controls and the operating effectiveness of 
our business processes. The AC approves an annual internal audit plan and monitors the activities and performance of 
our internal audit function throughout the year to ensure the plan objectives are carried out and met.
The AC members are not professional accountants or auditors, and their functions are not intended to duplicate or to 
certify the activities of management or the independent registered public accounting firm. The AC does not plan or 
conduct audits, determine that our financial statements are complete and accurate and in accordance with GAAP, or 
assess our internal control over financial reporting. The AC relies, without additional independent verification, on the 
information provided by our management and on the representations made by management that the financial 
statements have been prepared with integrity and objectivity, and the opinion of PwC that such financial statements 
have been prepared in conformity with GAAP.
In this context, the AC reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2024 with 
management and our internal control over financial reporting with management and PwC. Specifically, the AC discussed 
with PwC the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board and the SEC. We have received from PwC the written disclosures and letter required by the applicable 
requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding PwC’s communications with the AC 
concerning independence. The AC also considered whether the provision of certain permitted non-audit services by PwC 
is compatible with PwC’s independence and discussed PwC’s independence with PwC. 
Based on the AC’s review and discussions, the AC recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated 
financial statements be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2024.
Audit Committee
A. Brooke Seawell, Melissa B. Lora, Michael G. McCaffery, Mark L. Perry, Aarti Shah, and Mark A. Stevens

Proposal 4—Stockholder Proposal: Simple Majority Vote
What am I voting on? A stockholder proposal to eliminate all supermajority voting provisions.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter.
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: None.
Below is a stockholder proposal and supporting statement of the stockholder proponent, for which we and our Board 
accept no responsibility. This proposal is required to be voted upon at the 2024 Meeting if properly presented. Our Board 
has elected not to make a voting recommendation with respect to this proposal.
John Chevedden, 2215 Nelson Ave., No. 205, Redondo Beach, California 90278, the beneficial owner of at least 10 shares 
of our common stock on the date the proposal was submitted, intends to present the following proposal at the 2024 
Meeting.
Proposal 4 – Simple Majority Vote
Shareholders request that our board take each step necessary so that each voting requirement in our charter and bylaws 
(that is explicit or implicit due to default to state law) that calls for a greater than simple majority vote be replaced by a 
requirement for a majority of the votes cast for and against applicable proposals, or a simple majority in compliance with 
applicable laws. If necessary this means the closest standard to a majority of the votes cast for and against such 
proposals consistent with applicable laws. This includes making the necessary changes in plain English.
Shareholders are willing to pay a premium for shares of companies that have excellent corporate governance. 
Supermajority voting requirements have been found to be one of 6 entrenching mechanisms that are negatively related 
to company performance according to “What Matters in Corporate Governance” by Lucien Bebchuk, Alma Cohen and 
Allen Ferrell of the Harvard Law School. Supermajority requirements are used to block initiatives supported by most 
shareowners but opposed by a status quo management.
This proposal topic won from 74% to 88% support at Weyerhaeuser, Alcoa, Waste Management, Goldman Sachs, 
FirstEnergy, McGraw-Hill and Macy’s. These votes would have been higher than 74% to 88% if more shareholders had 
access to independent proxy voting advice. This proposal topic also received overwhelming 98%-support each at the 2023 
annual meetings of American Airlines (AAL) and The Carlyle Group (CG).
The overwhelming shareholder support for this proposal topic at hundreds of major companies raises the question of why 
NVIDIA had not initiated this proposal topic on its own.
Please vote yes:
Simple Majority Vote – Proposal 4

Board Statement in Response to Proposal 4
Proposal 4 is advisory only, and our Board does not recommend a vote either for or against the proposal. Approval of 
Proposal 4 would not, by itself, implement a majority voting standard. Our Board and our stockholders would need to take 
subsequent action to replace each supermajority voting standard in our Charter and Bylaws with a voting standard 
requiring only a simple majority of the votes cast, or the Simple Majority Vote, or as close as permitted by Delaware law.
Currently, our Charter and Bylaws specify supermajority voting standards applicable only to certain fundamental changes 
in corporate governance. The only provisions in our Charter and Bylaws that require the affirmative vote of the holders of 
at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of stock of 
NVIDIA, entitled to vote at an election of directors, or the Supermajority Voting Requirement, are:
Charter
Bylaws
Alteration, amendment or repeal of any of the following Charter provisions 
(Article VII, paragraph B):
Removal of director without cause (Section 21) 
Composition and election of the Board, amendment of the Bylaws, and 
stockholder action by written consent (Article V) 
Adoption, amendment, or repeal of the Bylaws by 
stockholders of NVIDIA (Section 48) 
Exculpation for violations of the duty of care by directors (Article VI)
Amendment of the Charter (Article VII) 
Removal of director without cause (Article V, paragraph A(3)) 
Alteration or amendment of a Bylaw provision or the adoption of a new Bylaw 
provision by stockholders of NVIDIA (Article V, paragraph B(1)) 
In addition, our Bylaws provide that the default stockholder voting standard for all matters other than the election of 
directors is the affirmative vote of a majority of shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
such matter, which requires greater than a Simple Majority Vote.
The Supermajority Voting Requirement was implemented to ensure broad support for certain fundamental changes to 
our corporate governance affecting all our stockholders. Our Board regularly reviews our governing documents and 
engages with and actively considers feedback from our stockholders concerning possible updates to ensure that the 
interests of all stockholders are fully protected. Under the proposed Simple Majority Vote standard, a few large 
stockholders could approve certain key actions and significantly alter our governance structure. For example, in the event 
of a stockholder meeting in which only 50% plus one share of our outstanding shares of capital stock are present and 
entitled to vote (the minimum number to constitute a quorum), holders of a majority of the votes cast, which could be 
even less than a majority of the shares present, could approve bylaw amendments that could effect fundamental 
changes to our corporate governance. Such a circumstance would be avoided by maintaining the current, limited 
Supermajority Voting Requirement.
Under the proposed Simple Majority Vote, as required by Delaware law, matters such as removal of directors and 
amendment of the Charter would require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of 
all of the then-outstanding shares of stock of NVIDIA. 
Our Board is interested in considering the viewpoints of all of our stockholders and will evaluate the voting results of 
Proposal 4, together with additional input received in the course of our regular stockholder engagement program. 
Accordingly, our Board is not making a voting recommendation with respect to Proposal 4.

Equity Compensation Plan Information
The number of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, RSUs, and PSUs, the weighted-average 
exercise price of outstanding stock options, and the number of stock awards remaining for future issuance under each of 
our equity compensation plans as of January 28, 2024 are summarized as follows:
Plan Category
Number of securities to be 
issued upon exercise of 
outstanding options, 
warrants, and rights
(a)
Weighted-average exercise 
price of outstanding
options, warrants
and, rights ($)
(b)
Number of securities remaining 
available for future issuance under 
equity compensation plans (excluding 
securities reflected in column (a))
(c)
Equity compensation plans 
approved by security holders (1)
 
37,344,029 
 
 
373,068,316 (2)
Equity compensation plans not 
approved by security holders
 
— (3)
 
 
Total
 
37,344,029 
 
373,068,316 
(1)
This row includes our 2007 Plan and our ESPP. Under our ESPP, participants are permitted to purchase our common stock at a discount on certain 
dates through payroll deductions within a pre-determined purchase period. Accordingly, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of 
outstanding rights under our ESPP as of January 28, 2024 is not determinable. 
(2) 
As of January 28, 2024, (a) the number of shares that remained available for future issuance under the 2007 Plan was 146,059,387, and (b) the number 
of shares that remained available for future issuance under the ESPP was 227,008,929, of which up to 1,178,052 shares may be purchased under the 
ESPP in the current purchase period which runs until August 30, 2024, based on estimated participation and contribution rates, purchase prices based 
on the applicable offering date prices, and the $25,000 limit under Section 423(b)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(3) 
Excludes RSUs assumed by NVIDIA in connection with mergers and acquisitions. As of January 28, 2024, a total of 195,457 shares were issuable upon 
the vesting of such RSUs. Such RSUs have no exercise price. No additional awards were or may be granted by NVIDIA under the plans pursuant to 
which such RSUs were originally granted.
During Fiscal 2024, we granted an aggregate of 14,812,090 shares under our 2007 Plan in the form of RSUs and PSUs, 
512,356 of which were granted to our NEOs, 8,977 of which were granted to our non-employee directors, and 14,290,757 
of which were granted to our other employees. For this purpose, PSUs are counted in the year of grant at the maximum 
number of shares that may become eligible to vest. Also during Fiscal 2024, an aggregate of 3,114,275 shares were 
purchased under our ESPP, 730 of which were purchased by our NEOs, and 3,113,545 of which were purchased by our 
other employees. Our non-employee directors are not eligible to participate in our ESPP.
Additional Information
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our executive officers, directors and persons who own more than 10% of a 
registered class of our equity securities to file initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership of our 
common stock and other equity securities with the SEC. Executive officers, directors and greater than 10% stockholders 
are required by SEC regulations to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file. To our knowledge, based 
solely on a review of the copies of such reports furnished to us and written representations that no other reports were 
required, all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to individuals who were, during Fiscal 2024, our executive 
officers, directors and greater than 10% beneficial owners were complied with, except for Mr. McCaffery, who filed a late 
Form 4 for one transaction.
Other Matters
The Board knows of no other matters that will be presented for consideration at the 2024 Meeting. If any other matters 
are properly brought before the 2024 Meeting, it is the intention of the persons named in the accompanying proxy to 
vote on such matters in accordance with their best judgment.
By Order of the Board of Directors
Timothy S. Teter
Secretary
May 14, 2024

A COPY OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 28, 2024 AS FILED WITH 
THE SEC IS BEING FURNISHED TO STOCKHOLDERS CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH. UPON WRITTEN REQUEST, WE WILL 
PROVIDE, WITHOUT CHARGE, AN ADDITIONAL COPY OF THE ANNUAL REPORT. STOCKHOLDERS MAY SUBMIT THEIR 
REQUESTS TO: INVESTOR RELATIONS, NVIDIA CORPORATION, 2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY, SANTA CLARA, 
CALIFORNIA 95051 OR TO SHAREHOLDERMEETING@NVIDIA.COM. WE WILL ALSO FURNISH A COPY OF ANY EXHIBIT 
TO THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K IF SPECIFICALLY REQUESTED IN WRITING.

other countries. Other company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of 
their respective companies.

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
____________________________________________________________________________________________
FORM 10-K 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2024 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Commission file number: 0-23985 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
94-3177549
(State or other jurisdiction of
(I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)
Identification No.)
 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 
95051
 (Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (408) 486-2000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class
Trading Symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share
NVDA
The Nasdaq Global Select Market
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T 
(§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). 
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth 
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer," “accelerated filer," “smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer
Accelerated filer
Non-accelerated filer
Smaller reporting company
Emerging growth company
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial 
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial 
reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the 
correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the 
registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 
Yes ☐ No ☒ 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of July 28, 2023 was approximately $1.1 trillion (based on the closing sales price of 
the registrant's common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on July 28, 2023). This calculation excludes 105 million shares held by directors and executive 
officers of the registrant. This calculation does not exclude shares held by such organizations whose ownership exceeds 5% of the registrant's outstanding common stock that 
have represented to the registrant that they are registered investment advisers or investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 16, 2024 was 2.5 billion.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A 
not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.

Table of Contents
 
 
Page
 
 
Part I
 
Item 1.
Business

Item 1A.
Risk Factors

Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments

Item 1C
Cybersecurity

Item 2.
Properties

Item 3.
Legal Proceedings

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

Part II
 
 
Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities

Item 6.
[Reserved]

Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures

Item 9B.
Other Information

Item 9C.
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Part III
 
Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Item 11.
Executive Compensation

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Part IV
 
Item 15.
Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

Item 16.
Form 10-K Summary

Signatures

Where You Can Find More Information
Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor 
relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social 
media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our products, our planned financial and other 
announcements and attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters and for complying 
with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD:
NVIDIA X Account (https://twitter.com/nvidia)
NVIDIA Corporate Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com) 
NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/nvidia) 
NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia)
NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia)
In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube (https://www.YouTube.com/nvidia).
The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should 
monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls 
and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations 
website.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which are based on our management's beliefs and 
assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking 
statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” 
“project,” “predict,” “potential,” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time 
frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements 
expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties, and other factors in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties, and other 
factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements 
represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K 
completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We 
hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially 
from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In addition, statements that “we believe” and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These 
statements are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we 
believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and 
our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially 
available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon 
these statements.
© 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.

Part I
Item 1. Business
Our Company
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. NVIDIA is now a 
full-stack computing infrastructure company with data-center-scale offerings that are reshaping industry.
Our full-stack includes the foundational CUDA programming model that runs on all NVIDIA GPUs, as well as hundreds of 
domain-specific software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, and Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs. 
This deep and broad software stack accelerates the performance and eases the deployment of NVIDIA accelerated 
computing for computationally intensive workloads such as artificial intelligence, or AI, model training and inference, data 
analytics, scientific computing, and 3D graphics, with vertical-specific optimizations to address industries ranging from 
healthcare and telecom to automotive and manufacturing.
Our data-center-scale offerings are comprised of compute and networking solutions that can scale to tens of thousands 
of GPU-accelerated servers interconnected to function as a single giant computer; this type of data center architecture 
and scale is needed for the development and deployment of modern AI applications.
The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it 
also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing 
capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential for deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in 
which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and selfdriving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered AI solutions are being developed by thousands of 
enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult or even impossible with traditional 
coding. Examples include generative AI, which can create new content such as text, code, images, audio, video, and 
molecule structures, and recommendation systems, which can recommend highly relevant content such as products, 
services, media or ads using deep neural networks trained on vast datasets that capture the user preferences.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to 
create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we 
address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and networking and software stacks. The 
programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same 
underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and 
partners. The large and growing number of developers and installed base across our platforms strengthens our 
ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers.
Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $45.3 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked the growth of the PC 
gaming market and redefined computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we 
opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU to a broad range of compute-intensive applications, paving the way 
for the emergence of modern AI. In 2012, the AlexNet neural network, trained on NVIDIA GPUs, won the ImageNet 
computer image recognition competition, marking the “Big Bang” moment of AI. We introduced our first Tensor Core GPU 
in 2017, built from the ground-up for the new era of AI, and our first autonomous driving system-on-chips, or SoC, in 
2018. Our acquisition of Mellanox in 2020 expanded our innovation canvas to include networking and led to the 
introduction of a new processor class – the data processing unit, or DPU. Over the past 5 years, we have built full software 
stacks that run on top of our GPUs and CUDA to bring AI to the world’s largest industries, including NVIDIA DRIVE stack 
for autonomous driving, Clara for healthcare, and Omniverse for industrial digitalization; and introduced the NVIDIA AI 
Enterprise software – essentially an operating system for enterprise AI applications. In 2023, we introduced our first data 
center CPU, Grace, built for giant-scale AI and high-performance computing. With a strong engineering culture, we drive 
fast, yet harmonized, product and technology innovations in all dimensions of computing including silicon, systems, 
networking, software and algorithms. More than half of our engineers work on software.
The world’s leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet companies use our data center-scale 
accelerated computing platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of end users, 
including AI solutions and assistants, search, recommendations, social networking, online shopping, live video, and 
translation.
Enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our accelerated computing platforms to build new 
generative AI-enabled products and services, or to dramatically accelerate and reduce the costs of their workloads and 
workflows. The enterprise software industry uses them for new AI assistants and chatbots; the transportation industry 
for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry for accelerated and computer-aided drug discovery; and the financial 
services industry for customer support and fraud detection.

Researchers and developers use our computing solutions to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from 
simulating molecular dynamics to climate forecasting. With support for more than 3,500 applications, NVIDIA computing 
enables some of the most promising areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind 
tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers over 75% of the supercomputers on the 
global TOP500 list, including 24 of the top 30 systems on the Green500 list. 
Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. In addition to serving the growing 
number of gamers, the market for PC GPUs is expanding because of the burgeoning population of live streamers, 
broadcasters, artists, and creators. With the advent of generative AI, we expect a broader set of PC users to choose 
NVIDIA GPUs for running generative AI applications locally on their PC, which is critical for privacy, latency, and costsensitive AI applications.
Professional artists, architects and designers use NVIDIA partner products accelerated with our GPUs and software 
platform for a range of creative and design use cases, such as creating visual effects in movies or designing buildings and 
products. In addition, generative AI is expanding the market for our workstation-class GPUs, as more enterprise 
customers develop and deploy AI applications with their data on-premises. 
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
Our Businesses
We report our business results in two segments.
The Compute & Networking segment is comprised of our Data Center accelerated computing platforms and end-to-end 
networking platforms including Quantum for InfiniBand and Spectrum for Ethernet; our NVIDIA DRIVE automated-driving 
platform and automotive development agreements; Jetson robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise 
and other software; and DGX Cloud software and services.
The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and 
related infrastructure; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU, or vGPU, software for 
cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise 
software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. 
Our Markets
We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These 
platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our 
platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and 
Automotive.
Data Center
The NVIDIA Data Center platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data 
analytics, graphics and scientific computing, delivering significantly better performance and power efficiency relative to 
conventional CPU-only approaches. It is deployed in cloud, hyperscale, on-premises and edge data centers. The platform 
consists of compute and networking offerings typically delivered to customers as systems, subsystems, or modules, 
along with software and services. 
Our compute offerings include supercomputing platforms and servers, bringing together our energy efficient GPUs, 
DPUs, interconnects, and fully optimized AI and high-performance computing, or HPC, software stacks. In addition, they 
include NVIDIA AI Enterprise software; our DGX Cloud service; and a growing body of acceleration libraries, APIs, SDKs, 
and domain-specific application frameworks.
Our networking offerings include end-to-end platforms for InfiniBand and Ethernet, consisting of network adapters, 
cables, DPUs, and switch systems, as well as a full software stack. This has enabled us to architect data center-scale 
computing platforms that can interconnect thousands of compute nodes with high-performance networking. While 
historically the server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC workloads have become extremely large spanning 
thousands of compute nodes, the data center has become the new unit of computing, with networking as an integral 
part.
Our end customers include the world’s leading public cloud and consumer internet companies, thousands of enterprises 
and startups, and public sector entities. We work with industry leaders to help build or transform their applications and 
data center infrastructure. Our direct customers include original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original device 
manufacturers, or ODMs, system integrators and distributors which we partner with to help bring our products to 
market. We also have partnerships in automotive, healthcare, financial services, manufacturing, and retail among others, 
to accelerate the adoption of AI.

At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs, which excel at parallel workloads such as 
the training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform and in 
industry standard servers from every major cloud provider and server maker. Beyond GPUs, our data center platform 
expanded to include DPUs in fiscal year 2022 and CPUs in fiscal year 2024. We can optimize across the entire computing, 
networking and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions.
While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack computing platform is our large body of 
software, including the CUDA parallel programming model, the CUDA-X collection of acceleration libraries, APIs, SDKs, 
and domain-specific application frameworks.
In addition to software delivered to customers as an integral part of our data center computing platform, we offer paid 
licenses to NVIDIA AI Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software and NVIDIA vGPU software for 
graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations. 
In fiscal year 2024, we launched the NVIDIA DGX Cloud, an AI-training-as-a-service platform which includes cloud-based 
infrastructure and software for AI, customizable pretrained AI models, and access to NVIDIA experts. We have partnered 
with leading cloud service providers to host this service in their data centers.
Gaming
Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the predominant platform. Many factors propel its 
growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of competitive gaming, or eSports, 
social connectivity and the increasing popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who remaster games, and 
creators.
Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance the gaming experience with smoother, 
higher quality graphics. We developed NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX 
features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering. Ray tracing, which has long been used for 
special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light 
to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes. NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or 
NVIDIA DLSS, our AI technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images for games. RTX GPUs 
will also accelerate a new generation of AI applications. With an installed base of over 100 million AI capable PCs, more 
than 500 RTX AI-enabled applications and games, and a robust suite of development tools, RTX is already the AI PC 
leader.
Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, 
GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC games on underpowered devices, as well as SoCs and development services 
for game consoles.
Professional Visualization
We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to 
optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new 
capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design 
and manufacturing encompass computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical 
instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post-production, special 
effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics.
The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically 
accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D design and content creation 
applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform 
their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.
We offer NVIDIA Omniverse as a development platform and operating system for building virtual world simulation 
applications, available as a software subscription for enterprise use and free for individual use. Industrial enterprises are 
adopting Omniverse’s 3D and simulation technologies to digitalize their complex physical assets, processes, and 
environments – building digital twins of factories, real time 3D product configurators, testing and validating autonomous 
robots and vehicles, powered by NVIDIA accelerated computing infrastructure on-premises and in the cloud.
Automotive
Automotive market is comprised of platform solutions for automated driving and in-vehicle cockpit computing. 
Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, we are delivering a 
complete end-to-end solution for the AV market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. We have demonstrated multiple 
applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, 
assisting the human driver while creating a safer driving experience.

We are working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem including automakers, truck makers, tier-one 
suppliers, sensor manufacturers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to develop and 
deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural 
networks using our Data Center computing solutions, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning, and control 
stack within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. DRIVE Hyperion consists of the high-performance, 
energy efficient DRIVE AGX computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving capability as well 
as an open, modular DRIVE software platform for autonomous driving, mapping, and parking services, and intelligent invehicle experiences.
In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse 
software, for digital cockpit development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform. Our unique end-toend, software-defined approach is designed for continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to 
receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle.
Business Strategies

Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. Our accelerated computing platform can solve complex 
problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, 
it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued performance leaps that 
outpace Moore’s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, interconnect, and software 
layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to 
legacy approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. 
While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying 
architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the fundamental building blocks. The 
programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can 
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks 
developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our 
target markets. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing 
platform for AI, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes full-stack data center-scale compute and 
networking solutions across processing units, interconnects, systems, and software. Our compute solutions include all 
three major processing units in AI servers – GPUs, CPUs, and DPUs. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to 
add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership position. In addition, we offer DGX 
Cloud, an AI-training-as-a-service platform, and NeMo – a complete solution for building enterprise-ready Large Language 
Models, or LLMs, using open source and proprietary LLMs created by NVIDIA and third parties. Our AI technology 
leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our computing platforms are available 
from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI supercomputers. There are over 4.7 million 
developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We 
evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and thousands of startups through our Inception 
program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design, train, 
and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We believe that computer graphics infused 
with AI is fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development 
resources to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications and 
create new virtual world and simulation capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving the gaming, design, and 
creative industries forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized experience on our 
GeForce and NVIDIA RTX platforms. Our computer graphics platforms leverage AI end-to-end, from the developer tools 
and cloud services to the Tensor Cores included in all RTX-class GPUs. For example, NVIDIA Avatar Cloud Engine, or ACE, is 
a suite of technologies that help developers bring digital avatars to life with generative AI, running in the cloud or locally 
on the PC. GeForce Experience enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as enabling 
the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative 
applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, 
designers, and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications. We also enable interactive graphics 
applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost 
anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming. 
Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of autonomous vehicles, or AV, and electric 
vehicles, or EV, is revolutionizing the transportation industry. The algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as 
perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple neural 
networks instead. In addition, EV makers are looking for next-generation centralized car computers that integrate a wide 
range of intelligent functions into a single AI compute platform. Therefore, we provide an AI-based hardware and 
software solution, designed and implemented from the ground up based on automotive safety standards, for the AV and 
EV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive OEMs, 

tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural 
networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software 
updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry 
to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving.
Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers 
and partners through license and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly into their 
own products or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements can further 
enhance the reach of our technology.
Sales and Marketing
Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our highperformance and efficient computing platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global 
markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner 
network incorporates global, regional and specialized CSPs, OEMs, ODMs, system integrators, independent software 
vendors, or ISVs, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, distributors, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive 
suppliers, and other ecosystem participants.
Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of 
application engineers and solution architects to provide pre-sales assistance to our partner network in designing, testing, 
and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms. For example, our solution architects work with CSPs to 
provide pre-sales assistance to optimize their hardware and software infrastructure for generative AI and LLM training 
and deployment. They also work with foundation model and enterprise software developers to optimize the training and 
fine-tuning of their models and services, and with enterprise end-users, often in collaboration with their global system 
integrator of choice, to fine-tune models and build AI applications. We believe that the depth and quality of our design 
support are key to improving our partner network’s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and 
fostering relationships that encourage our end customers and partner network to use the next generation of our 
products within each platform.
To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and software, we seek to establish and 
maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage 
with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as to ascertain individual product 
requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer program supports the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, 
and APIs for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep Learning Institute 
provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and 
accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms.
Seasonality
Our computing platforms serve a diverse set of markets such as data centers, gaming, professional visualization, and 
automotive. Our desktop gaming products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year. Historical 
seasonality trends may not repeat.
Manufacturing 
We utilize a fabless and contracting manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ and partner with key suppliers for all 
phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging. We use the expertise 
of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International Organization for Standardization in such areas as 
fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can avoid many of the 
significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly 
procure certain raw materials used in the production of our products, such as memory, substrates, and a variety of 
components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of most raw materials used in the production of our products. 
As a result, we can focus our resources on product design, quality assurance, marketing, and customer support. In periods 
of growth, we may place non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in advance of our historical 
lead times, pay premiums, or provide deposits to secure future supply and capacity and may need to continue to do so.
We have expanded our supplier relationships to build redundancy and resilience in our operations to provide long-term 
manufacturing capacity aligned with growing customer demand. Our supply chain is concentrated in the Asia-Pacific 
region. We utilize foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, or TSMC, and Samsung 
Electronics Co., Ltd., or Samsung, to produce our semiconductor wafers. We purchase memory from Micron Technology, 
Inc., SK Hynix Inc., and Samsung. We utilize CoWoS technology for semiconductor packaging. We engage with 
independent subcontractors and contract manufacturers such as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Wistron 
Corporation, and Fabrinet to perform assembly, testing and packaging of our final products.

Competition 
The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving 
industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product 
offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry 
standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain 
competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will 
demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at 
competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with 
products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by 
our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire 
significant market share.
A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, 
embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI computing processor products, and providers of semiconductor-based highperformance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel, and proprietary technologies. Some of 
our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be 
more able to adapt to customers or technological changes. We expect an increasingly competitive environment in the 
future.
Our current competitors include:
suppliers and licensors of hardware and software for discrete and integrated GPUs, custom chips and other 
accelerated computing solutions, including solutions offered for AI, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or 
AMD, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., or Huawei, and Intel Corporation, or Intel;
large cloud services companies with internal teams designing hardware and software that incorporate 
accelerated or AI computing functionality as part of their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alibaba Group, 
Alphabet Inc., Amazon, Inc., or Amazon, Baidu, Inc., Huawei, and Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft;
suppliers of Arm-based CPUs and companies that incorporate hardware and software for CPUs as part of their 
internal solutions or platforms, such as Amazon, Huawei, and Microsoft;
suppliers of hardware and software for SoC products that are used in servers or embedded into automobiles, 
autonomous machines, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc., AMD, Broadcom Inc., or Broadcom, Intel, 
Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Electronics Corporation, and Samsung, or companies with internal teams 
designing SoC products for their own products and services, such as Tesla, Inc.; and
networking products consisting of switches, network adapters (including DPUs), and cable solutions (including 
optical modules) include such as AMD, Arista Networks, Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Inc., Hewlett Packard 
Enterprise Company, Huawei, Intel, Lumentum Holdings, and Marvell Technology Group as well as internal teams 
of system vendors and large cloud services companies.
Patents and Proprietary Rights
We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure 
agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our IP in the United States and internationally. Our currently issued 
patents have expiration dates from February 2024 to August 2043. We have numerous patents issued, allowed, and 
pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to 
our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, 
organizations, and foreign laws to protect our IP. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may 
be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent 
as the laws of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and 
products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for innovations and 
technologies based on such factors as:
the location in which our products are manufactured;
our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;
the degree to which IP laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions; and
the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and 
regions.
We have licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue entering such license agreements.

Government Regulations
Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations of the United States as well as of 
foreign governments.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government, or the USG, announced licensing requirements that, 
with certain exceptions, impact exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of our A100 and H100 
integrated circuits, DGX or any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits.
In July 2023, the USG informed us of an additional licensing requirement for a subset of A100 and H100 products 
destined to certain customers and other regions, including some countries in the Middle East.
In October 2023, the USG announced new and updated licensing requirements that became effective in our fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2024 for exports to China and Country Groups D1, D4, and D5 (including but not limited to Saudi 
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam, but excluding Israel) of our products exceeding certain performance 
thresholds, including A100, A800, H100, H800, L4, L40, L40S and RTX 4090. The licensing requirements also apply to the 
export of products exceeding certain performance thresholds to a party headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent 
headquartered in, Country Group D5, including China. On October 23, 2023, the USG informed us the licensing 
requirements were effective immediately for shipments of our A100, A800, H100, H800, and L40S products.
Our competitive position has been harmed, and our competitive position and future results may be further harmed in the 
long term, if there are further changes in the USG’s export controls. Given the increasing strategic importance of AI and 
rising geopolitical tensions, the USG has changed and may again change the export control rules at any time and further 
subject a wider range of our products to export restrictions and licensing requirements, negatively impacting our 
business and financial results. In the event of such change, we may be unable to sell our inventory of such products and 
may be unable to develop replacement products not subject to the licensing requirements, effectively excluding us from 
all or part of the China market, as well as other impacted markets, including the Middle East.
While we work to enhance the resiliency and redundancy of our supply chain, which is currently concentrated in the AsiaPacific region, new and existing export controls or changes to existing export controls could limit alternative 
manufacturing locations and negatively impact our business. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to 
Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters” for a discussion of this potential impact.
Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations has not otherwise had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, 
results of operations, or competitive position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for 
environmental control facilities. Compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited 
to, those pertaining to IP ownership and infringement, taxes, import and export requirements and tariffs, anti-corruption, 
business acquisitions, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, 
competition and antitrust, advertising, employment, product regulations, cybersecurity, environmental, health and safety 
requirements, the responsible use of AI, climate change, cryptocurrency, and consumer laws, could increase our costs, 
impact our competitive position, and otherwise may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition 
and results of operations in subsequent periods. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of these potential 
impacts.
Sustainability and Governance
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound 
environmental, social, and corporate governance principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. The 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing and discussing 
with management our practices related to sustainability and corporate governance. We assess our programs annually in 
consideration of stakeholder expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These issues are 
important for our continued business success and reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders. 
The following section and the Human Capital Management Section below provide an overview of our principles and 
practices. More information can be found on our website and in our annual Sustainability Report. Information contained 
on our website or in our annual Sustainability Report is not incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks and 
uncertainties we face related to sustainability.
Climate Change
In the area of environmental sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our product lifecycle and assess risks, 
including current and emerging regulations and market impacts. 
In May 2023, we published metrics related to our environmental impact for fiscal year 2023. Fiscal year 2024 metrics are 
expected to be published in the first half of fiscal year 2025. There has been no material impact to our capital 
expenditures, results of operations or competitive position associated with global environmental sustainability 
regulations, compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of fiscal year 2025, our goal is to purchase 

or generate enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers. In 
fiscal year 2023, we increased the percentage of our total electricity use matched by renewable energy purchases to 44%. 
By fiscal year 2026, we aim to engage manufacturing suppliers comprising at least 67% of NVIDIA’s scope 3 category 1 
GHG emissions with goal of effecting supplier adoption of science-based targets.
Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or designs to support high-performance 
supercomputers, improving energy efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes. GPUaccelerated computing is inherently more energy efficient than traditional computing for many workloads because it is 
optimized for throughput, performance per watt, and certain AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is 
evidenced by our continued strong presence on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient systems. We powered 24 
of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, including the top supercomputer, on the Green500 list. 
We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable 
scientists, companies, and policy makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change and 
explore mitigation and adaptation strategies.
Human Capital Management
We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our 
stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal year 2024, we had approximately 29,600 employees in 36 countries, 22,200 were 
engaged in research and development and 7,400 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative 
positions. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors assists in the oversight of policies and strategies 
relating to human capital management.
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must recruit, develop, and retain talented 
employees, including qualified executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff. 
Recruitment
As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have 
been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted talent globally through our strong employer brand 
and differentiated hiring strategies for college, professional, and leadership talent. Our workforce is 83% technical and 
49% hold advanced degrees. Additionally, we have increased focus on diversity recruiting, resulting in an increase in global 
female hiring in each channel. Our own employees help to surface top talent, with over 40% of our new hires in fiscal year 
2024 coming from employee referrals. 
Development and Retention
To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training courses, targeted 
development programs, mentoring and peer coaching and ongoing feedback. We have a library of live and on-demand 
learning experiences that include workshops, panel discussions, and speaker forums. We create learning paths focused 
on our most common development needs and constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure that our employees are 
exposed to the most current content and technologies available. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize 
educational programs and advanced certifications. We implemented a career coaching service to provide one-on-one 
guidance to employees, and encourage internal job mobility. We have implemented specifically designed mentoring and 
development programs for women and employees from traditionally underrepresented groups to ensure widespread 
readiness for future advancement.
To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party 
platform. Pulse surveys help us gain insight into employee experience and provides employee-generated ideas so that we 
can take targeted action. The suggestion box is an always-on, interactive tool where employees share their thoughts 
about making our company a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to protect the 
identity of the reporter and provide a mechanism for reporters to follow an investigation and receive responses.
We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and 
stay. In fiscal year 2024, our overall turnover rate was 2.7%.
Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being
Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage employees to invest in the Company’s 
future. Employees receive equity, except where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our stock 
price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. 
We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees’ and their families’ physical health, well-being, and financial 
health. Programs include 401(k) programs in the U.S., statutory and supplemental pension programs outside the U.S., our 
employee stock purchase program, flexible work hours, and time off policies to address mental health, stress, and timemanagement challenges. We evaluate our benefit offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across the 
regions where we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on the needs of our Community 
Resource Groups and continuing our support for parents, both new birth parents and those who wish to become parents. 

Our support is enhanced during times of crisis, such as war or economic volatility, to take care of our existing team of 
world-class talent and their families.
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that supports all 
employees.
When recruiting for new talent or developing our current employees, we strive to build a diverse talent pipeline that 
includes those underrepresented in the technology field, including women, Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latino 
candidates.
To this end, we have been:
Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving historically underrepresented communities; 
Embedding dedicated recruiting teams to business areas to shepherd underrepresented candidates through the 
interview process and find internal opportunities;
Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at building a pipeline of future 
leaders; 
Providing peer support and executive sponsors for our internal community resource groups;
Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering supportive environments and recruiting for 
diversity;
Track equity and parity in retention, promotions, pay, and employee engagement scores; and
Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on diversity efforts. 
As of the end of fiscal year 2024, our global workforce was 79% male, 20% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our 
workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.
Flexible Working Environment
We support a flexible work environment, understanding that many employees want the ability to work from home under 
certain conditions. This flexibility supports diverse hiring, retention, and employee engagement, which we believe makes 
NVIDIA a great place to work.
During fiscal year 2025, we will continue to have a flexible work environment and maintain our company wide 2-days off a 
quarter for employees to rest and recharge.
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages, and positions as of February 16, 
2024:
Name
Age
Position
Jen-Hsun Huang

President and Chief Executive Officer
Colette M. Kress

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ajay K. Puri

Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist

Executive Vice President, Operations
Timothy S. Teter

Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer, and a member of 
the Board of Directors since our inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a 
computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit 
responsible for LSI's SOC. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for AMD, a semiconductor 
company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford 
University.
Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress 
most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations 
Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was 
responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering 
and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft, a software company, including, 
beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial 

strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight 
years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. 
Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.
Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, 
Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over 
a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, 
management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard, an information technology company, 
Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Mr. 
Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of 
Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.
Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and in 2009 became Executive Vice 
President of Operations. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of 
Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products 
for the telecommunications industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the 
Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she 
worked at Quantum Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division, 
and at Hewlett-Packard. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. 
degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.
Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive 
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two decades 
at the law firm of Cooley LLP, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. Prior to attending 
law school, he worked as an engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, an aerospace company. Mr. Teter holds a 
B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law 
School.
Available Information
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, 
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or through our website, http://www.nvidia.com, as 
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, or the SEC. The SEC’s website, http://www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and 
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or 
connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
The following risk factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The 
following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock 
price to decline. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are 
immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.
Risk Factors Summary
Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets
Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry may adversely impact our financial results.
Competition could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing
Failure to estimate customer demand accurately has led and could lead to mismatches between supply and 
demand.
Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test, or package our 
products reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, and product delivery 
schedules and could harm our business.
Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant expenses to remediate and could 
damage our business.
Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.

International sales and operations are a significant part of our business, which exposes us to risks that could 
harm our business.
Product, system security and data breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our operations and adversely affect 
our financial condition, stock price and reputation.
Business disruptions could harm our operations and financial results.
Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.
We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments or acquisitions, nor successfully 
integrate acquisition targets.
A significant amount of our revenue stems from a limited number of partners and distributors and we have a 
concentration of sales to end customers, and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented 
from selling to any of these end customers.
We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees.
Modification or interruption of our business processes and information systems may disrupt our business, and 
internal controls.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are 
below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters
We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations, and political and other actions, which may adversely 
impact our business.
Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators, and others regarding our corporate sustainability practices 
could result in financial, reputational, or operational harm and liability.
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI, may result in reputational or financial 
harm and liability.
Adequately protecting our IP rights could be costly, and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are 
unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations, and other obligations. 
These areas could damage our reputation, deter customers, affect product design, or result in legal or regulatory 
proceedings and liability.
Our operating results may be adversely impacted by additional tax liabilities, higher than expected tax rates, 
changes in tax laws, and other tax-related factors.
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations, and regulatory proceedings.
Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows from operations and prevent us 
from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.
Delaware law, provisions in our governing documents and our agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a 
change in control.
Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets
Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely impact our financial results.
Our accelerated computing platforms experience rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, competitive 
products, and industry standards.
Our success depends on our ability to:
timely identify industry changes, adapt our strategies, and develop new or enhance and maintain existing 
products and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets, including due to unexpected changes 
in industry standards or disruptive technological innovation that could render our products incompatible with 
products developed by other companies;

develop or acquire new products and technologies through investments in research and development;
launch new offerings with new business models including software, services, and cloud solutions, as well as 
software-, infrastructure-, or platform-as-a-service solutions;
expand the ecosystem for our products and technologies;
meet evolving and prevailing customer and industry safety, security, reliability expectations, and compliance 
standards;
manage product and software lifecycles to maintain customer and end-user satisfaction;
develop, acquire, maintain, and secure access to the internal and external infrastructure needed to scale our 
business, including sufficient energy for powering data centers using our products, acquisition integrations, 
customer support, e-commerce, IP licensing capabilities and cloud service capacity; and
complete technical, financial, operational, compliance, sales and marketing investments for the above activities.
We have invested in research and development in markets where we have a limited operating history, which may not 
produce meaningful revenue for several years, if at all. If we fail to develop or monetize new products and technologies, or 
if they do not become widely adopted, our financial results could be adversely affected. Obtaining design wins may 
involve a lengthy process and depends on our ability to anticipate and provide features and functionality that customers 
will demand. They also do not guarantee revenue. Failure to obtain a design win may prevent us from obtaining future 
design wins in subsequent generations. We cannot ensure that the products and technologies we bring to market will 
provide value to our customers and partners. If we fail any of these key success criteria, our financial results may be 
harmed.
We have begun offering enterprise customers NVIDIA DGX Cloud services directly and through our network of partners, 
which include cloud-based infrastructure, software and services for training and deploying AI models, and NVIDIA AI 
Foundations for customizable pretrained AI models. We have partnered with CSPs to host such software and services in 
their data centers, and we entered and may continue to enter into multi-year cloud service agreements to support these 
offerings and our research and development activities. The timing and availability of these cloud services has changed 
and may continue to change, impacting our revenue, expenses, and development timelines. NVIDIA DGX Cloud services 
may not be successful and will take time, resources, and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software 
solutions, including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA DRIVE, and several other software solutions. These 
new business models or strategies may not be successful, and we may fail to sell any meaningful standalone software or 
services. We may incur significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these offerings.
Competition could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
Our target markets remain competitive, and competition may intensify with expanding and changing product and service 
offerings, industry standards, customer needs, new entrants and consolidations. Our competitors’ products, services and 
technologies, including those mentioned above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may be cheaper or provide better 
functionality or features than ours, which has resulted and may in the future result in lower-than-expected selling prices 
for our products. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities, and have longer operating histories, 
larger customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, more design wins, and greater financial, 
sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to acquire market share and/or 
prevent us from doing so, more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end-user trends, 
more quickly transition their products, and impinge on our ability to procure sufficient foundry capacity and scarce input 
materials during a supply-constrained environment, which could harm our business. Some of our customers have in-house 
expertise and internal development capabilities similar to some of ours and can use or develop their own solutions to 
replace those we are providing. For example, others may offer cloud-based services that compete with our AI cloud 
service offerings, and we may not be able to establish market share sufficient to achieve the scale necessary to meet our 
business objectives. If we are unable to successfully compete in this environment, demand for our products, services and 
technologies could decrease and we may not establish meaningful revenue.
Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing
Failure to estimate customer demand accurately has led and could lead to mismatches between supply and demand.
We use third parties to manufacture and assemble our products, and we have long manufacturing lead times. We are not 
provided guaranteed wafer, component and capacity supply, and our supply deliveries and production may be non-linear 
within a quarter or year. If our estimates of customer demand are inaccurate, as we have experienced in the past, there 
could be a significant mismatch between supply and demand. This mismatch has resulted in both product shortages and 
excess inventory, has varied across our market platforms, and has significantly harmed our financial results.
We build finished products and maintain inventory in advance of anticipated demand. While we have in the past entered 
and may in the future enter into long-term supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure sufficient 

commitments for capacity to address our business needs, or our long-term demand expectations may change. These 
risks may increase as we shorten our product development cycles, enter new lines of business, or integrate new suppliers 
or components into our supply chain, creating additional supply chain complexity. Additionally, our ability to sell certain 
products has been and could be impeded if components necessary for the finished products are not available from third 
parties. This risk may increase as a result of our platform strategy. In periods of shortages impacting the semiconductor 
industry and/or limited supply or capacity in our supply chain, the lead times on our orders may be extended. We have 
previously experienced and may continue to experience extended lead times of more than 12 months. We have paid 
premiums and provided deposits to secure future supply and capacity, which have increased our product costs and may 
continue to do so. If our existing suppliers are unable to scale their capabilities to meet our supply needs, we may require 
additional sources of capacity, which may require additional deposits. We may not have the ability to reduce our supply 
commitments at the same rate or at all if our revenue declines.
Many additional factors have caused and/or could in the future cause us to either underestimate or overestimate our 
customers’ future demand for our products, or otherwise cause a mismatch between supply and demand for our 
products and impact the timing and volume of our revenue, including:
changes in product development cycles and time to market;
competing technologies and competitor product releases and announcements;
changes in business and economic conditions resulting in decreased end demand;
sudden or sustained government lockdowns or actions to control case spread of global or local health issues;
rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;
the availability of sufficient data center capacity and energy for customers to procure;
new product introductions and transitions resulting in less demand for existing products;
new or unexpected end-use cases;
increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions;
business decisions made by third parties;
the demand for accelerated or AI-related cloud services, including our own software and NVIDIA DGX Cloud 
services;
changes that impact the ecosystem for the architectures underlying our products and technologies;
the demand for our products; or
government actions or changes in governmental policies, such as export controls or increased restrictions on 
gaming usage.
Demand for our data center systems and products surged in fiscal year 2024. Entering fiscal year 2025, we are gathering 
customer demand indications across several product transitions. We have demand visibility for our new data center 
products ramping later in fiscal year 2025. We have increased our supply and capacity purchases with existing suppliers, 
added new vendors and entered into prepaid manufacturing and capacity agreements. These increased purchase 
volumes, the number of suppliers, and the integration of new vendors into our supply chain may create more complexity 
and execution risk. We may continue to enter into new supplier and capacity arrangements. Our purchase commitments 
and obligations for inventory and manufacturing capacity at the end of fiscal year 2024 were impacted by shortening lead 
times for certain components. Supply of Hopper architecture products is improving, and demand remains very strong. 
We expect our next-generation products to be supply-constrained based upon demand indications. We may incur 
inventory provisions or impairments if our inventory or supply or capacity commitments exceed demand for our products 
or demand declines.
Our customer orders and longer-term demand estimates may change or may not be correct, as we have experienced in 
the past. Product transitions are complex and can impact our revenue as we often ship both new and prior architecture 
products simultaneously and we and our channel partners prepare to ship and support new products. Due to our product 
introduction cycles, we are almost always in various stages of transitioning the architecture of our Data Center, 
Professional Visualization, and Gaming products. We will have a broader and faster Data Center product launch cadence 
to meet a growing and diverse set of AI opportunities. The increased frequency of these transitions may magnify the 
challenges associated with managing our supply and demand due to long manufacturing lead times. Qualification time for 
new products, customers anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel inventory of prior 
architectures ahead of new product introductions can create reductions or volatility in our revenue. We have experienced 
and may in the future experience reduced demand for current generation architectures when customers anticipate 

transitions, and we may be unable to sell multiple product architectures at the same time for current and future 
architecture transitions. If we are unable to execute our architectural transitions as planned for any reason, our financial 
results may be negatively impacted. The increasing frequency and complexity of newly introduced products may result in 
unanticipated quality or production issues that could increase the magnitude of inventory provisions, warranty or other 
costs or result in product delays. Deployment of new products to customers creates additional challenges due to the 
complexity of our technologies, which has impacted and may in the future impact the timing of customer purchases or 
otherwise impact our demand. While we have managed prior product transitions and have previously sold multiple 
product architectures at the same time, these transitions are difficult, may impair our ability to predict demand and 
impact our supply mix, and we may incur additional costs.
Many end customers often do not purchase directly from us but instead purchase indirectly through multiple OEMs, 
ODMs, system integrators, distributors, and other channel partners. As a result, the decisions made by our multiple OEMs, 
ODMs, system integrators, distributors, and other channel partners, and in response to changing market conditions and 
changes in end-user demand for our products, have impacted and could in the future continue to impact our ability to 
properly forecast demand, particularly as they are based on estimates provided by various downstream parties.
If we underestimate our customers' future demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate leadtime or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill orders on a timely 
basis. Even if we are able to increase supply to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, or 
our contract manufacturers may experience supply constraints. If we cannot procure sufficient supply to meet demand 
or otherwise fail to fulfill our customers’ orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, 
we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be harmed. Additionally, since some of our products are 
part of a complex data center buildout, supply constraints or availability issues with respect to any one component have 
had and may have a broader revenue impact.
If we overestimate our customers’ future demand for our products, or if customers cancel or defer orders or choose to 
purchase from our competitors, we may not be able to reduce our inventory or other contractual purchase commitments. 
In the past, we have experienced a reduction in average selling prices, including due to channel pricing programs that we 
have implemented and may continue to implement, as a result of our overestimation of future demand, and we may need 
to continue these reductions. We have had to increase prices for certain of our products as a result of our suppliers’ 
increase in prices, and we may need to continue to do so for other products in the future. We have also written down our 
inventory, incurred cancellation penalties, and recorded impairments and may have to do so in the future. These impacts 
were amplified by our placement of non-cancellable and non-returnable purchasing terms well in advance of our historical 
lead times and could be exacerbated if we need to make changes to the design of future products. The risk of these 
impacts has increased and may continue to increase as our purchase obligations and prepaids have grown and are 
expected to continue to grow and become a greater portion of our total supply. All of these factors may negatively 
impact our gross margins and financial results.
We build technology and introduce products for new and innovative use cases and applications, such as NVIDIA DGX 
Cloud services, NVIDIA AI Foundations, Omniverse platform, LLMs, and generative AI models. Our demand estimates for 
new use cases, applications, and services can be incorrect and create volatility in our revenue or supply levels, and we may 
not be able to generate significant revenue from these use cases, applications, and services. Recent technologies, such as 
generative AI models, have emerged, and while they have driven increased demand for Data Center, the long-term 
trajectory is unknown. Because our products may be used in multiple use cases and applications, it is difficult for us to 
estimate with any reasonable degree of precision the impact of generative AI models on our reported revenue or 
forecasted demand. Additionally, we started shipping our CPU product offerings, the Grace CPU and Grace Hopper 
Superchips, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2024. Our ability to adequately predict our CPU demand may create volatility 
in our revenue or supply levels.
Challenges in estimating demand could become more pronounced or volatile in the future on both a global and regional 
basis. Extended lead times may occur if we experience other supply constraints caused by natural disasters, pandemics or 
other events. In addition, geopolitical tensions, such as those involving Taiwan and China, which comprise a significant 
portion of our revenue and where we have suppliers, contract manufacturers, and assembly partners who are critical to 
our supply continuity, could have a material adverse impact on us.
The use of our GPUs other than that for which they were designed and marketed, including new and unexpected use 
cases, has impacted and can in the future impact demand for our products, including by leading to inconsistent spikes 
and drops in demand. For example, several years ago, our Gaming GPUs began to be used for mining digital currencies, 
such as Ethereum. It is difficult for us to estimate with any reasonable degree of precision the past or current impact of 
cryptocurrency mining, or forecast the future impact of cryptocurrency mining, on demand for our products. Volatility in 
the cryptocurrency market, including new compute technologies, price changes in cryptocurrencies, government 
cryptocurrency policies and regulations, new cryptocurrency standards and changes in the method of verifying 
blockchain transactions, has impacted and can in the future impact cryptocurrency mining and demand for our products 
and can further impact our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to cryptocurrency standards and 
processes including, but not limited to, the Ethereum 2.0 merge in 2022, have reduced and may in the future decrease the 
usage of GPUs for Ethereum mining. This has created and may in the future create increased aftermarket sales of our 

GPUs, which could negatively impact retail prices for our GPUs and reduce demand for our new GPUs. In general, our new 
products or previously sold products may be resold online or on the unauthorized “gray market,” which also makes 
demand forecasting difficult. Gray market products and reseller marketplaces compete with our new products and 
distribution channels.
Additionally, we depend on developers, customers and other third parties to build, enhance, and maintain accelerated 
computing applications that leverage our platforms. We also rely on third-party content providers and publishers to make 
their content available on our platforms, such as GeForce NOW. Failure by developers, customers, and other third parties 
to build, enhance, and maintain applications that leverage our platforms, or failure by third-party content providers or 
publishers to make their content available on reasonable terms or at all for use by our customers or end users on our 
platforms, could adversely affect customer demand.
Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test, or package our products 
reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, and product delivery schedules and could 
harm our business.
We depend on foundries to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. 
We do not assemble, test, or package our products, but instead contract with independent subcontractors. These 
subcontractors assist with procuring components used in our systems, boards, and products. We face several risks which 
have adversely affected or could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand and scale our supply chain, 
negatively impact longer-term demand for our products and services, and adversely affect our business operations, gross 
margin, revenue and/or financial results, including:
lack of guaranteed supply of wafer, component and capacity or decommitment and potential higher wafer and 
component prices, from incorrectly estimating demand and failing to place orders with our suppliers with 
sufficient quantities or in a timely manner;
failure by our foundries or contract manufacturers to procure raw materials or provide adequate levels of 
manufacturing or test capacity for our products;
failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality process technologies, including 
transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory 
designs needed to manufacture our products;
failure by our suppliers to comply with our policies and expectations and emerging regulatory requirements;
limited number and geographic concentration of global suppliers, foundries, contract manufacturers, assembly 
and test providers and memory manufacturers;
loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or 
subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss, addition or change of a 
supplier;
lack of direct control over product quantity, quality and delivery schedules;
suppliers or their suppliers failing to supply high quality products and/or making changes to their products 
without our qualification;
delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our 
subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors’ or other customers’ orders over ours;
requirements to place orders that are not cancellable upon changes in demand or requirements to prepay for 
supply in advance;
low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a foundry’s proprietary process 
technology; and
disruptions in manufacturing, assembly and other processes due to closures related to heat waves, earthquakes, 
fires, or other natural disasters and electricity conservation efforts.
Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant expenses to remediate, which can damage 
our reputation and cause us to lose market share.
Our hardware and software product and service offerings are complex. They have in the past and may in the future 
contain defects or security vulnerabilities or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of 
issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials, bugs and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our 
products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications or as new versions are released. These 
risks further increase when we rely on partners to supply and manufacture components that are used in our products, as 
these arrangements reduce our direct control over production. AI software products we or our partners offer rely on 

training data that may originate from third parties and new training methods, and the resulting products may contain 
unknown or undetected defects and errors, or reflect unintended bias. Although arrangements with component providers 
may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, we generally remain responsible to the customer for 
warranty product defects that may occur from time to time. Some failures in our products or services have been in the 
past and may in the future be only discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used. Undiscovered 
vulnerabilities in our products or services could result in loss of data or intangible property, or expose our customers to 
unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy malicious software programs that could attack our products or 
services. Defects or failure of our offerings to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to the products 
in which our offerings have been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and automotive manufacturers and tier 1 automotive 
suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and 
repair or replacement costs as part of a product recall or otherwise, write-off the value of related inventory, and divert 
the attention of our engineering and management personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct 
the issue. Our efforts to remedy these issues may not be timely or satisfactory to our customers. An error or defect in 
new products, releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure 
to achieve market acceptance, loss of design wins, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market and 
harm to our relationships with existing and prospective customers and partners and consumers’ perceptions of our 
brand, which would in turn negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. We 
may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including for costs to repair or replace products in 
the field or in connection with indemnification obligations, or pay fines imposed by regulatory agencies.
For example, in fiscal year 2023, a defect was identified in a third-party component embedded in certain Data Center 
products. This defect has had, and other defects may in the future have, an adverse effect on our cost and supply of 
components and finished goods. These costs could be significant in future periods. We recorded a net warranty liability 
during fiscal year 2023 primarily in connection with this defect. While we believe we have accurately recorded for 
warranty obligations, we may need to record additional amounts in the future if our estimate proves to be incorrect. In 
general, if a product liability claim regarding any of our products is brought against us, even if the alleged damage is due 
to the actions or inactions of a third party, such as within our supply chain, the cost of defending the claim could be 
significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our business. Further, our 
business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could 
adversely impact our financial results.
Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.
Economic and industry uncertainty or changes, including recession or slowing growth, inflation, changes or uncertainty in 
fiscal, monetary or trade policy, disruptions to capital markets and the banking system, currency fluctuations, higher 
interest rates, tighter credit, lower capital expenditures by businesses, including on IT infrastructure, increases in 
unemployment, labor shortages, and lower consumer confidence and spending, global supply chain constraints and global 
economic and geopolitical developments have in the past and/or could in the future have adverse, wide-ranging effects 
on our business and financial results, including:
increased costs for wafers, components, logistics, and other supply chain expenses, which have negatively 
impacted our gross margin in the past and may do so in the future;
increased supply, employee, facilities and infrastructure costs and volatility in the financial markets, which have 
reduced and may in the future reduce our margins;
decrease in demand for our products, services and technologies and those of our customers, partners or 
licensees;
the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us and our customers’ or our licensees’ 
inability to supply products to customers and/or end users;
limits on our ability to forecast operating results and make business decisions;
the insolvency of key suppliers, distributors, customers, cloud service providers, data center providers, licensing 
parties or other third parties we rely on;
reduced profitability of customers, which may cause them to scale back operations, exit businesses, file for 
bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, or lead to mergers, consolidations or strategic alliances 
among other companies, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively; and
increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital markets, reduced 
liquidity, adverse impacts on our customers and suppliers, failures of counterparties, including financial 
institutions and insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments. 

Adverse developments affecting financial institutions, such as bank failures or instability, or concerns or speculation 
about similar events or risks, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and other disruptions, which could impact our 
customers’ ability to fulfill their payment obligations to us, our vendors’ ability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, 
or our ability to fulfill our own obligations.
Additionally, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are 
subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or 
events that affect global financial markets, as described above. A majority of our investment portfolio comprises USG 
securities. A decline in global financial markets for long periods or a downgrade of the USG credit rating due to an actual 
or threatened default on government debt could result in higher interest rates, a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, 
reduced market liquidity or other adverse conditions. These factors could cause an unrealized or realized loss position in 
our investments or require us to record impairment charges.
International sales and operations are a significant part of our business, which exposes us to risks that could harm our 
business.
We sell our products internationally, and we also have operations and conduct business internationally. Our 
semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United 
States, and we generated 56% of our revenue in fiscal year 2024 from sales outside of the United States. Our sales to 
China decreased as a percentage of total Data Center revenue from 19% in fiscal year 2023 to 14% in fiscal year 2024. 
Although we have not received licenses from the USG to ship restricted products to China, we have started to ship 
alternatives to the China market in small volumes. China represented a mid-single digit percentage of our Data Center 
revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024 due to USG licensing requirements and we expect China to be in a similar 
range in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and 
uncertainties, which have had in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. These include domestic and international economic and political conditions in 
countries in which we and our suppliers and manufacturers do business, government lockdowns to control case spread of 
global or local health issues, differing legal standards with respect to protection of IP and employment practices, 
different domestic and international business and cultural practices, disruptions to capital markets, counter-inflation 
policies, currency fluctuations, natural disasters, acts of war or other military actions, terrorism, public health issues and 
other catastrophic events.
Product, system security, and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce 
our expected revenue, increase our expenses, and significantly harm our business and reputation.
Security breaches, computer malware, social-engineering attacks, denial-of-service attacks, software bugs, server 
malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, and other cyber-attacks 
are becoming increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to successfully detect, defend against them or 
implement adequate preventative measures.
Cyber-attacks, including ransomware attacks by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-statesupported actors, may become more prevalent and severe. Our ability to recover from ransomware attacks may be limited 
if our backups have been affected by the attack, or if restoring from backups is delayed or not feasible.
Individuals, groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including nation-states and nation-state-supported 
actors, and other threat actors have engaged and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks. Additionally, some 
actors are using AI technology to launch more automated, targeted and coordinated attacks. Due to geopolitical conflicts 
and during times of war or other major conflicts, we and the third parties we rely upon may be vulnerable to a heightened 
risk of cyber-attacks that could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and products. We may also face 
cybersecurity threats due to error or intentional misconduct by employees, contractors or other third-party service 
providers. Certain aspects of effective cybersecurity are dependent upon our employees, contractors and/or other thirdparty service providers safeguarding our sensitive information and adhering to our security policies and access control 
mechanisms. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, security incidents arising from a failure 
to properly handle sensitive information or adhere to our security policies and access control mechanisms and, although 
no such events have had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that an insider threat will 
not result in an incident that is material to us. Furthermore, we rely on products and services provided by third-party 
suppliers to operate certain critical business systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption 
and authentication technology, employee email and other functions, which exposes us to supply-chain attacks or other 
business disruptions. We cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our partners’ 
supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable vulnerabilities, defects or bugs that 
could result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems, including our products and services, or 
the third-party information technology systems that support our services. We may also incorporate third-party data into 
our AI algorithms or use open-source datasets to train our algorithms. These datasets may be flawed, insufficient, or 
contain certain biased information, and may otherwise be vulnerable to security incidents. We may have limited insight 
into the data privacy or security practices of third-party suppliers, including for our AI algorithms. Our ability to monitor 
these third parties’ information security practices is limited, and they may not have adequate information security 
measures in place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security incident (which has happened in the 

past and may happen in the future), our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have direct access 
to their systems, logs and other information related to the security incident. Additionally, we are incorporated into the 
supply chain of a large number of entities worldwide and, as a result, if our products or services are compromised, a 
significant number of our customers and their data could be affected, which could result in potential liability and harm 
our business.
To defend against security incidents, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and 
reliability features, which is expected to result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop our security 
measures, including training programs and security awareness initiatives, designed to ensure our suppliers have 
appropriate security measures in place, and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our customers, 
applicable industry standards, and government regulations. While we invest in training programs and security awareness 
initiatives and take steps to detect and remediate certain vulnerabilities that we have identified, we may not always be 
able to prevent threats or detect and mitigate all vulnerabilities in our security controls, systems or software, including 
third-party software we have installed, as such threats and techniques change frequently and may not be detected until 
after a security incident has occurred. Further, we may experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures 
designed to address identified vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities could result in reputational and financial harm, and if 
exploited, these vulnerabilities could result in a security incident.
We hold confidential, sensitive, personal and proprietary information, including information from partners and customers. 
Breaches of our security measures, along with reported or perceived vulnerabilities or unapproved dissemination of 
proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or third parties, could expose us and the parties 
affected to a risk of loss, or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and subsequent liability, 
regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm, including financial, to our business. For 
example, we hold proprietary game source code from third-party partners in our GFN service. Breaches of our GFN 
security measures, which have happened in the past, could expose our partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this source 
code, damage both us and our partners, and expose NVIDIA to potential litigation and liability. If we or a third party we rely 
on experience a security incident, which has occurred in the past, or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, 
we may experience adverse consequences, including government enforcement actions, additional reporting requirements 
and/or oversight, restrictions on processing data, litigation, indemnification obligations, reputational harm, diversion of 
funds, diversion of management attention, financial loss, loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and operations, 
supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our goods and services, and other similar harms. Inability to fulfill 
orders, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial 
results, stock price and reputation. Applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us to notify relevant 
stakeholders, including affected individuals, customers, regulators and investors, of security incidents, and mandatory 
disclosure of such incidents could lead to negative publicity. In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties 
may gather, collect or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers or other means that reveals 
competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to harm our business.
Business disruptions could harm our operations, lead to a decline in revenue and increase our costs.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, power or water 
shortages, telecommunications failures, supplier disruptions, terrorist attacks, acts of violence, political and/or civil 
unrest, acts of war or other military actions, epidemics or pandemics, abrupt regulatory deterioration, and other natural or 
man-made disasters and catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, a large portion of our current data center 
capacity, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, and other critical business 
operations, finished goods inventory and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, making our operations vulnerable to 
natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. 
Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT 
and research and development systems and personnel. Our business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not 
be sufficient for all eventualities. Geopolitical and domestic political developments and other events beyond our control, 
can increase economic volatility globally. Political instability, changes in government or adverse political developments in 
or around any of the major countries in which we do business may harm our business, financial condition and results of 
operations. Worldwide geopolitical tensions and conflicts, including but not limited to China, Hong Kong, Israel, Korea and 
Taiwan where the manufacture of our product components and final assembly of our products are concentrated may 
result in changing regulatory requirements, and other disruptions that could impact our operations and operating 
strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. For example, other countries have 
restricted and may continue in the future to restrict business with the State of Israel, where we have engineering, sales 
support operations and manufacturing, and companies with Israeli operations, including by economic boycotts. Our 
operations could be harmed and our costs could increase if manufacturing, logistics or other operations are disrupted for 
any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, power shortages, information technology 
system failures or cyber-attacks, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political 
issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers of being located and consolidated in 
certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a disaster, war or catastrophic event affects us, the third-party 
systems on which we rely, or our customers, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in 
expenses, and substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could 
materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results.

We are monitoring the impact of the geopolitical conflict in and around Israel on our operations, including the health and 
safety of our approximately 3,700 employees in the region who primarily support the research and development, 
operations, and sales and marketing of our networking products. Our operating expenses in fiscal year 2024 include 
expenses for financial support to impacted employees and charitable activity. We believe our global supply chain for our 
networking products has not experienced any significant impact. Further, in connection with the conflict, a substantial 
number of our employees in the region have been called-up for active military duty in Israel. Accordingly, some of our 
employees in Israel have been absent for an extended period and they or others may continue to be absent, which may 
cause disruption to our product development or operations. We did not experience any significant impact or expense to 
our business; however, if the conflict is further extended, it could impact future product development, operations, and 
revenue or create other uncertainty for our business.
Additionally, interruptions or delays in services from CSPs, data center co-location partners, and other third parties on 
which we rely, including due to the events described above or other events such as the insolvency of these parties, could 
impair our ability to provide our products and services and harm our business. As we increase our reliance on these thirdparty systems and services, our exposure to damage from service interruptions, defects, disruptions, outages, shortages 
and other performance and quality problems may increase. Data centers depend on access to clean water and predictable 
energy. Power or water shortages, or regulations that limit energy or water availability, could impair the ability of our 
customers to expand their data center capacity and consume our products and services.
Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.
Climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and on our customers, partners and vendors. 
Water and energy availability and reliability in the regions where we conduct business is critical, and certain of our 
facilities may be vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather events. Extreme heat and wind coupled with dry 
conditions in Northern California may lead to power safety shut offs due to wildfire risk, which can have adverse 
implications for our Santa Clara, California headquarter offices and data centers, including impairing the ability of our 
employees to work effectively. Climate change, its impact on our supply chain and critical infrastructure worldwide and its 
potential to increase political instability in regions where we, our customers, partners and our vendors do business, may 
disrupt our business and cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and costs to maintain or resume operations. 
Although we maintain insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks, the types and amounts of 
insurance we obtain vary depending on availability and cost. Some of our policies have large deductibles and broad 
exclusions, and our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by insurance may be 
large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.
Our business and those of our suppliers and customers may also be subject to climate-related laws, regulations and 
lawsuits. New or proposed regulations relating to carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, pollution limits, sustainability-related 
disclosure and governance and supply chain governance could result in greater direct costs, including costs associated 
with changes to manufacturing processes or the procurement of raw materials used in manufacturing processes, 
increased capital expenditures to improve facilities and equipment, and higher compliance and energy costs to reduce 
emissions, other compliance costs, as well as greater indirect costs resulting from our customers and/or suppliers 
incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs and restrictions could harm our business and 
results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our operations and product design activities. 
Stakeholder groups may find us insufficiently responsive to the implications of climate change, and therefore we may 
face legal action or reputational harm. We may not achieve our stated sustainability-related goals, which could harm our 
reputation, or we may incur additional, unexpected costs to achieve such goals. We may also experience contractual 
disputes due to supply chain delays arising from climate change-related disruptions, which could result in increased 
litigation and costs.
We also face risks related to business trends that may be influenced by climate change concerns. Our business could be 
negatively impacted by concerns around the high absolute energy requirements of our GPUs, despite their much more 
energy efficient design and operation relative to alternative computing platforms.
We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments or acquisitions, and we may not be able to 
successfully integrate acquired companies, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or 
sell our products.
We have acquired and invested and may continue to do so in businesses that offer products, services and technologies 
that we believe will help expand or enhance our strategic objectives. Acquisitions or investments involve significant 
challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products and 
ultimately could have a negative impact on our financial results. If we pursue a particular transaction, we may limit our 
ability to enter into other transactions that could help us achieve our other strategic objectives. If we are unable to timely 
complete acquisitions, including due to delays and challenges in obtaining regulatory approvals, we may be unable to 
pursue other transactions, we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company, technology may evolve 
and make the acquisition less attractive, and other changes can take place, which could reduce the anticipated benefits 
of the transaction and negatively impact our business. Regulators could also impose conditions that reduce the ultimate 
value of our acquisitions. In addition, to the extent that our perceived ability to consummate acquisitions has been 

harmed, future acquisitions may be more difficult, complex or expensive. Further, our investments in publicly traded 
companies could create volatility in our results and may generate losses up to the value of the investment. In addition, we 
have invested and may continue to invest in private companies to further our strategic objectives and to support certain 
key business initiatives. These companies can include early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction. Many 
of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable and illiquid at the time of our initial investment, and we are not 
always able to achieve a return. To the extent any of the companies in which we invest are not successful, we could 
recognize an impairment and/or lose all or part of our investment. Our investment portfolio contains industry sector 
concentration risks, and a decline in any one or multiple industry sectors could increase our impairment losses. We face 
additional risks related to acquisitions and strategic investments, including the diversion of capital and other resources, 
including management’s attention; difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return and uncertainties to realize the benefits of 
an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; difficulty or inability in obtaining governmental, regulatory approval or 
restrictions or other consents and approvals or financing; legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or 
investment; and potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the assets or company 
in which we are investing or are acquiring.
Additional risks related to acquisitions include, but are not limited to:
difficulty in integrating the technology, systems, products, policies, processes, or operations and integrating and 
retaining the employees, including key personnel, of the acquired business;
assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of 
acquired assets;
integrating accounting, forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles;
coordinating and integrating operations, particularly in countries in which we do not currently operate;
stock price impact, fines, fees or reputation harm if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition 
or are otherwise unable to close an acquisition;
potential issuances of debt to finance our acquisitions, resulting in increased debt, increased interest expense, 
and compliance with debt covenants or other restrictions;
the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities;
the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based consideration;
negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target 
operate;
exposure to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities; and
impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target’s employees, vendors and customers.
For example, when integrating acquisition target systems into our own, we have experienced and may continue to 
experience challenges including lengthy and costly systems integration, delays in purchasing and shipping products, 
difficulties with system integration via electronic data interchange and other processes with our key suppliers and 
customers, and training and change management needs of integration personnel. These challenges have impacted our 
results of operations and may continue to do so in the future.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of partners and distributors and we have a 
concentration of sales to customers who purchase directly or indirectly from us, and our revenue could be adversely 
affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner 
network. Sales to one customer, Customer A, represented 13% of total revenue for fiscal year 2024, which was 
attributable to the Compute & Networking segment. With several of these channel partners, we are selling multiple 
products and systems in our portfolio through their channels. Our operating results depend on sales within our partner 
network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our processors. In the future, these 
partners may decide to purchase fewer products, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their 
purchasing patterns in some other way. Because most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, our customers 
can generally cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little notice to us and without penalty. Our 
partners or customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; and 
our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products, all of which 
may alter partners’ or customers’ purchasing patterns. Many of our customers often do not purchase directly from us but 
purchase through multiple OEMs, ODMs, system integrators, distributors and other channel partners. One indirect 
customer which primarily purchases our products through system integrators and distributors, including through 
Customer A, is estimated to have represented approximately 19% of total revenue for fiscal year 2024, attributable to the 

Compute & Networking segment. If end demand increases or our finished goods supply availability is concentrated near a 
quarter end, the system integrators, distributors and channel partners may have limited ability to increase their credit, 
which could impact the timing and amount of our revenue. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction 
in purchases by them, our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. or other countries’ trade restrictions or any difficulties 
in collecting accounts receivable would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, our business may be harmed.
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives 
and key employees and recruit and develop capable and diverse talent. Labor is subject to external factors that are 
beyond our control, including our industry’s highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, cost inflation and 
workforce participation rates. Changes in immigration and work permit regulations or in their administration or 
interpretation could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for personnel results in 
increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation, and in times of stock price volatility, as we have 
experienced in the past and may experience in the future, the retentive value of our stock-based compensation may 
decrease. Additionally, we are highly dependent on the services of our longstanding executive team. Failure to ensure 
effective succession planning, transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and key employees 
could hinder our strategic planning and execution and long-term success.
Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business processes and information systems and 
modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, and internal controls.
We rely upon internal processes and information systems to support key business functions, including our assessment of 
internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The efficient operation 
and scalability of these processes and systems is critical to support our growth. We continue to design and implement 
updated accounting functionality related to a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Any ERP system 
implementation may introduce problems, such as quality issues or programming errors, that could have an impact on our 
continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and accurately report our financial results. These 
changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. 
Failure to implement new or updated controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our 
operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.
Identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls, even if quickly remediated once disclosed, may cause 
investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of any material 
weakness could require us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial 
statements may be inaccurate, we may be required to restate our financial statements, our ability to report our financial 
results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our 
stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are 
below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate due to numerous of these risk factors. 
Therefore, investors should not rely on our past results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 
Additional factors that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to:
our ability to adjust spending due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services;
our ability to comply with our contractual obligations to customers;
our extended payment term arrangements with certain customers, the inability of some customers to make 
required payments, our ability to obtain credit insurance for customers with extended payment terms, and 
customer bad debt write-offs;
our vendors' payment requirements;
unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; and
changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards.
Any of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our anticipated financial results. For example, we 
have granted and may continue to grant extended payment terms to some customers, particularly during macroeconomic 
downturns, which could impact our ability to collect payment. Our vendors have requested and may continue to ask for 
shorter payment terms, which may impact our cash flow generation. These arrangements reduce the cash we have 
available for general business operations. In addition, the pace of growth in our operating expenses and investments may 
lag our revenue growth, creating volatility or periods where profitability levels may not be sustainable. Failure to meet our 
expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts is likely to cause our stock price to decline, as it has 
in the past, or experience substantial price volatility.

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters
Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to which our business is subject, and 
political and other actions may adversely impact our business.
We are subject to laws and regulations domestically and worldwide, affecting our operations in areas including, but not 
limited to, IP ownership and infringement; taxes; import and export requirements and tariffs; anti-corruption, including 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; business acquisitions; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; 
data privacy requirements; competition and antitrust; advertising; employment; product regulations; cybersecurity; 
environmental, health, and safety requirements; the responsible use of AI; sustainability; cryptocurrency; and consumer 
laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive, could impact our competitive position, and may 
negatively impact our business operations and ability to manufacture and ship our products. There can be no assurance 
that our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers or agents will not violate applicable laws or the policies, controls, 
and procedures that we have designed to help ensure compliance with such laws, and violations could result in fines, 
criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to 
our reputation. Changes to the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject, or changes to their interpretation and 
enforcement, could lead to materially greater compliance and other costs and/or further restrictions on our ability to 
manufacture and supply our products and operate our business. For example, we may face increased compliance costs as 
a result of changes or increases in antitrust legislation, regulation, administrative rule making, increased focus from 
regulators on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. Our position in markets relating to AI has led to increased interest in 
our business from regulators worldwide, including the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom and China. 
For example, the French Competition Authority collected information from us regarding our business and competition in 
the graphics card and cloud service provider market as part of an ongoing inquiry into competition in those markets. We 
have also received requests for information from regulators in the European Union, the United Kingdom, and China 
regarding our sales of GPUs, our efforts to allocate supply, foundation models and our investments, partnerships and 
other agreements with companies developing foundation models, and we expect to receive additional requests for 
information in the future. Governments and regulators are considering imposing restrictions on the hardware, software, 
and systems used to develop frontier foundation models and generative AI. If implemented, such restrictions could 
increase the costs and burdens to us and our customers, delay or halt deployment of new systems using our products, 
and reduce the number of new entrants and customers, negatively impacting our business and financial results. Revisions 
to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could also result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the 
imposition of or increase to import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory 
actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans or impact the timing of our shipments. Additionally, 
changes in the public perception of governments in the regions where we operate or plan to operate could negatively 
impact our business and results of operations.
Government actions, including trade protection and national and economic security policies of U.S. and foreign 
government bodies, such as tariffs, import or export regulations, including deemed export restrictions and restrictions on 
the activities of U.S. persons, trade and economic sanctions, decrees, quotas or other trade barriers and restrictions could 
affect our ability to ship products, provide services to our customers and employees, do business without an export 
license with entities on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s U.S. Entity List or other USG restricted parties lists (which is 
expected to change from time to time), and generally fulfill our contractual obligations and have a material adverse effect 
on our business. If we were ever found to have violated export control laws or sanctions of the U.S. or similar applicable 
non-U.S. laws, even if the violation occurred without our knowledge, we may be subject to various penalties available 
under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial 
condition.
For example, in response to the war in Ukraine, the United States and other jurisdictions imposed economic sanctions and 
export control measures which blocked the passage of our products, services and support into Russia, Belarus, and 
certain regions of Ukraine. In fiscal year 2023, we stopped direct sales to Russia and closed business operations in Russia. 
Concurrently, the war in Ukraine has impacted sales in EMEA and may continue to do so in the future.
The increasing focus on the risks and strategic importance of AI technologies has resulted in regulatory restrictions that 
target products and services capable of enabling or facilitating AI and may in the future result in additional restrictions 
impacting some or all of our product and service offerings.
Concerns regarding third-party use of AI for purposes contrary to local governmental interests, including concerns 
relating to the misuse of AI applications, models, and solutions, has resulted in and could in the future result in unilateral 
or multilateral restrictions on products that can be used for training, modifying, tuning, and deploying LLMs. Such 
restrictions have limited and could in the future limit the ability of downstream customers and users worldwide to 
acquire, deploy and use systems that include our products, software, and services, and negatively impact our business 
and financial results.
Such restrictions could include additional unilateral or multilateral export controls on certain products or technology, 
including but not limited to AI technologies. As geopolitical tensions have increased, semiconductors associated with AI, 
including GPUs and associated products, are increasingly the focus of export control restrictions proposed by 
stakeholders in the U.S. and its allies. The United States has imposed unilateral controls restricting GPUs and associated 

products, and it is likely that additional unilateral or multilateral controls will be adopted. Such controls have been and 
may again be very broad in scope and application, prohibit us from exporting our products to any or all customers in one 
or more markets, including but not limited to China, and could negatively impact our manufacturing, testing and 
warehousing locations and options, or could impose other conditions that limit our ability to serve demand abroad and 
could negatively and materially impact our business, revenue and financial results. Export controls targeting GPUs and 
semiconductors associated with AI, which have been imposed and are increasingly likely to be further tightened, would 
further restrict our ability to export our technology, products, or services even though competitors may not be subject to 
similar restrictions, creating a competitive disadvantage for us and negatively impacting our business and financial 
results. Export controls targeting GPUs and semiconductors associated with AI have subjected and may in the future 
subject downstream users of our products to additional restrictions on the use, resale, repair, or transfer of our products, 
negatively impacting our business and financial results. Controls could negatively impact our cost and/or ability to provide 
services such as NVIDIA AI cloud services and could impact the cost and/or ability for our cloud service providers and 
customers to provide services to their end customers, even outside China.
Export controls could disrupt our supply chain and distribution channels, negatively impacting our ability to serve 
demand, including in markets outside China and for our gaming products. The possibility of additional export controls has 
negatively impacted and may in the future negatively impact demand for our products, benefiting competitors that offer 
alternatives less likely to be restricted by further controls. Repeated changes in the export control rules are likely to 
impose compliance burdens on our business and our customers, negatively and materially impacting our business.
Increasing use of economic sanctions and export controls has impacted and may in the future impact demand for our 
products or services, negatively impacting our business and financial results. Reduced demand due to export controls 
could also lead to excess inventory or cause us to incur related supply charges. Additional unilateral or multilateral 
controls are also likely to include deemed export control limitations that negatively impact the ability of our research and 
development teams to execute our roadmap or other objectives in a timely manner. Additional export restrictions may not 
only impact our ability to serve overseas markets, but also provoke responses from foreign governments, including China, 
that negatively impact our supply chain or our ability to provide our products and services to customers in all markets 
worldwide, which could also substantially reduce our revenue. Regulators in China have inquired about our sales and 
efforts to supply the China market and our fulfillment of the commitments we entered at the close of our Mellanox 
acquisition. If the regulators conclude that we have failed to fulfill such commitments or we have violated any applicable 
law in China, we could be subject to various penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct our business, any of which 
could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the USG announced export restrictions and export licensing requirements 
targeting China’s semiconductor and supercomputing industries. These restrictions impact exports of certain chips, as 
well as software, hardware, equipment and technology used to develop, produce and manufacture certain chips to China 
(including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia, and specifically impact our A100 and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or any 
other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits. The licensing requirements also apply to any 
future NVIDIA integrated circuit achieving certain peak performance and chip-to-chip I/O performance thresholds, as well 
as any system or board that includes those circuits. There are also now licensing requirements to export a wide array of 
products, including networking products, destined for certain end users and for certain end uses in China. During the 
second quarter of fiscal year 2024, the USG also informed us of an additional licensing requirement for a subset of A100 
and H100 products destined to certain customers and other regions, including some countries in the Middle East.
In October 2023, the USG announced new and updated licensing requirements that became effective in our fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2024 for exports to China and Country Groups D1, D4, and D5 (including but not limited to, Saudi 
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam, but excluding Israel) of our products exceeding certain performance 
thresholds, including A100, A800, H100, H800, L4, L40, L40S and RTX 4090. The licensing requirements also apply to the 
export of products exceeding certain performance thresholds to a party headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent 
headquartered in, Country Group D5, including China. On October 23, 2023, the USG informed us that the licensing 
requirements were effective immediately for shipments of our A100, A800, H100, H800, and L40S products. We have not 
received licenses to ship these restricted products to China.
Following these export controls, we transitioned some operations, including certain testing, validation, and supply and 
distribution operations out of China and Hong Kong. Any future transitions could be costly and time consuming, and 
adversely affect our research and development and supply and distribution operations, as well as our revenue, during any 
such transition period. We are working to expand our Data Center product portfolio to offer new solutions, including 
those for which the USG does not require a license or advance notice before each shipment. To the extent that a 
customer requires products covered by the licensing requirements, we may seek a license for the customer. However, the 
licensing process is time-consuming. We have no assurance that the USG will grant such a license or that the USG will act 
on the license application in a timely manner or at all. Even if a license is offered, it may impose burdensome conditions 
that we or our customer or end users cannot or decide not to accept. The USG is evaluating license requests in a closed 
process that does not have clear standards or an opportunity for review. For example, the Notified Advanced Computing, 
or “NAC,” process has not resulted in approvals for exports of products to customers in China. The license process for 
exports to D1 and D4 countries has been time-consuming and resulted in license conditions for countries outside China. 
The requirements have a disproportionate impact on NVIDIA and already have disadvantaged and may in the future 

disadvantage NVIDIA against certain of our competitors who sell products that are not subject to the new restrictions or 
may be able to acquire licenses for their products.
Management of these new licenses and other requirements is complicated and time consuming. Our competitive position 
has been harmed, and our competitive position and future results may be further harmed, over the long-term, if there are 
further changes in the USG’s export controls, including further expansion of the geographic, customer, or product scope 
of the controls, if customers purchase product from competitors, if customers develop their own internal solution, if we 
are unable to provide contractual warranty or other extended service obligations, if the USG does not grant licenses in a 
timely manner or denies licenses to significant customers or if we incur significant transition costs. Even if the USG 
grants any requested licenses, the licenses may be temporary or impose burdensome conditions that we or our 
customers or end users cannot or choose not to fulfill. The licensing requirements may benefit certain of our 
competitors, as the licensing process will make our pre-sale and post-sale technical support efforts more cumbersome 
and less certain and encourage customers in China to pursue alternatives to our products, including semiconductor 
suppliers based in China, Europe, and Israel.
Given the increasing strategic importance of AI and rising geopolitical tensions, the USG has changed and may again 
change the export control rules at any time and further subject a wider range of our products to export restrictions and 
licensing requirements, negatively impacting our business and financial results. In the event of such change, we may be 
unable to sell our inventory of such products and may be unable to develop replacement products not subject to the 
licensing requirements, effectively excluding us from all or part of the China market, as well as other impacted markets, 
including the Middle East. For example, the USG has already imposed conditions to limit the ability of foreign firms to 
create and offer as a service large-scale GPU clusters, for example by imposing license conditions on the use of products 
to be exported to certain countries, or by requiring chip tracking and throttling mechanisms that would disable or impair 
GPUs if certain system or use conditions are detected. The USG has already imposed export controls restricting certain 
gaming GPUs, and if the USG expands such controls to restrict additional gaming products, it may disrupt a significant 
portion of our supply and distribution chain and negatively impact sales of such products to markets outside China, 
including the U.S. and Europe. Export controls may disrupt our supply and distribution chain for a substantial portion of 
our products, which are warehoused in and distributed from Hong Kong. Export controls restricting our ability to sell 
datacenter GPUs may also negatively impact demand for our networking products used in servers containing our GPUs. 
The USG may also impose export controls on our networking products, such as high-speed network interconnects, to limit 
the ability of downstream parties to create large clusters for frontier model training. Any new control that impacts a 
wider range of our products would likely have a disproportionate impact on NVIDIA and may disadvantage us against 
certain of our competitors that sell chips that are outside the scope of such control. Excessive or shifting export controls 
have already and may in the future encourage customers outside China and other impacted regions to “design-out” 
certain U.S. semiconductors from their products to reduce the compliance burden and risk, and to ensure that they are 
able to serve markets worldwide. Excessive or shifting export controls have already encouraged and may in the future 
encourage overseas governments to request that our customers purchase from our competitors rather than NVIDIA or 
other U.S. firms, harming our business, market position, and financial results. As a result, excessive or shifting export 
controls may negatively impact demand for our products and services not only in China, but also in other markets, such as 
Europe, Latin America, and Southeast Asia. Excessive or shifting export controls increase the risk of investing in U.S. 
advanced semiconductor products, because by the time a new product is ready for market, it may be subject to new 
unilateral export controls restricting its sale. At the same time, such controls may increase investment in foreign 
competitors, which would be less likely to be restricted by U.S. controls.
Additionally, restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on the duration of gaming activities and access to games 
may adversely affect our Gaming revenue, and increased oversight of digital platform companies may adversely affect 
our Data Center revenue. The Chinese government may impose restrictions on the sale to certain customers of our 
products, or any products containing components made by our partners and suppliers. For example, the Chinese 
government announced restrictions relating to certain sales of products containing certain products made by Micron, a 
supplier of ours. Further restrictions on our products or the products of our suppliers could negatively impact our 
business and financial results.
Finally, our business depends on our ability to receive consistent and reliable supply from our overseas partners, especially 
in Taiwan. Any new restrictions that negatively impact our ability to receive supply of components, parts, or services from 
Taiwan, would negatively impact our business and financial results.
Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators and others regarding our corporate sustainability practices could 
result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation and willingness of customers and suppliers to do 
business with us.
Shareholder advocacy groups, certain investment funds, other market participants, shareholders, customers and 
government regulators have focused increasingly on corporate sustainability practices and disclosures, including those 
associated with climate change and human rights. Stakeholders may not be satisfied with our corporate sustainability 
practices and goals or the speed of their adoption. Further, there is an increasing number of state-level initiatives in the 
U.S. that may conflict with other regulatory requirements or our various stakeholders’ expectations. Additionally, our 
corporate sustainability practices, oversight of our practices or disclosure controls may not meet evolving shareholder, 

regulator or other industry stakeholder expectations, or we may fail to meet corporate sustainability disclosure or 
reporting standards. We could also incur additional costs and require additional resources to monitor, report, and comply 
with various corporate sustainability practices, choose not to conduct business with potential customers, or discontinue 
or not expand business with existing customers due to our policies. These factors may negatively harm our brand, 
reputation and business activities or expose us to liability.
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI in our offerings, may result in reputational or 
financial harm and liability.
Concerns relating to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies, such as AI, in our products and services may 
result in reputational or financial harm and liability and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such issues. We are 
increasingly building AI capabilities and protections into many of our products and services, and we also offer stand-alone 
AI applications. AI poses emerging legal, social, and ethical issues and presents risks and challenges that could affect its 
adoption, and therefore our business. If we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or 
actual impact on society, such as AI solutions that have unintended consequences, infringe copyright or rights of 
publicity, or are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment or other social, economic or 
political issues, or if we are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating to the responsible 
development and use of AI models and systems offered through our sales channels, we may experience brand or 
reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Complying with multiple regulations from different jurisdictions 
related to AI could increase our cost of doing business, may change the way that we operate in certain jurisdictions, or 
may impede our ability to offer certain products and services in certain jurisdictions if we are unable to comply with 
regulations. Compliance with existing and proposed government regulation of AI, including in jurisdictions such as the 
European Union as well as under any U.S. regulation adopted in response to the Biden administration’s Executive Order on 
AI, may also increase the cost of related research and development, and create additional reporting and/or transparency 
requirements. For example, regulation adopted in response to the Executive Order on AI could require us to notify the 
USG of certain safety test results and other information. Furthermore, changes in AI-related regulation could 
disproportionately impact and disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices, which may negatively 
impact our financial results. Our failure to adequately address concerns and regulations relating to the responsible use of 
AI by us or others could undermine public confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services or cause 
reputational or financial harm.
Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be 
harmed if we are unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other IP rights 
violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify. An unfavorable ruling could include 
significant damages, invalidation of one or more patents, indemnification of third parties, payment of lost profits, or 
injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merit, could 
cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts 
and attention of management and technical personnel.
We may commence legal proceedings to protect our IP rights, which may increase our operating expenses. We could be 
subject to countersuits as a result. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a 
third party’s IP, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party’s IP rights. If we or one of our 
indemnitees is unable to obtain such a license on acceptable terms or at all, we could be subject to substantial liabilities 
or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make 
royalty or other payments or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially 
reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other 
indemnitee may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results.
We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing 
arrangements and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our IP. Foreign laws may not protect our 
products or IP rights to the same extent as United States law. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and 
products more likely. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential information 
could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in 
research and development, product development and marketing could be reduced. We also may face risks to our IP if our 
employees are hired by competitors. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing 
and new innovations and technologies but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be 
approved, and, if approved, whether they will be enforceable.
We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations and other obligations. 
These areas could damage our reputation, deter current and potential customers, affect our product design, or result 
in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability.
We process sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, 
industry standards, external and internal policies, contracts and other obligations that govern the processing of such 
data by us and on our behalf. Concerns about our practices or the ultimate use of our products and services with regard 

to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, including 
for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss or 
misuse of personal data in our possession or by one of our partners could result in damage to our reputation, regulatory 
proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased security costs and costs related to defending legal claims.
In the United States, federal, state and local authorities have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including 
for data breach notification, personal data privacy and consumer protection. In the past few years, numerous U.S. states 
have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing 
specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. As 
applicable, such rights may include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain 
data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling and automated decision-making. The exercise of these 
rights may impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter 
requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy 
impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the California Consumer 
Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, or collectively the CCPA, gives 
California residents the right to access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal information, and to receive 
detailed information about how it is used and shared. The CCPA provides for fines of up to $7,500 per intentional violation 
and the law created a private right of action for certain data breaches. Similar laws are being considered in several other 
states, as well as at the federal and local levels. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures related 
to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in products and services. If we become subject to additional data 
privacy laws, the risk of enforcement action against us could increase. 
Worldwide regulatory authorities are also considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data 
protection. The European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the United Kingdom 
similarly adopted the U.K. GDPR, governing the strict handling of personal data of persons within the European Economic 
Area, or EEA, and the United Kingdom, respectively, including its use and protection and the ability of persons whose data 
is stored to access, correct, and delete such data about themselves. If we are found not to comply, we could be subject to 
penalties of up to €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is greater, and classes of individuals or consumer 
protection organizations may initiate litigation related to our processing of their personal data. Furthermore, the EU AI 
Act could impose onerous obligations that may disproportionately impact and disadvantage us and require us to change 
our business practices.
In the ordinary course of business, we may transfer personal data from Europe, China, and other jurisdictions to the 
United States or other countries. Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal data 
transfer laws. For example, the GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EEA. 
The European Commission released a set of “Standard Contractual Clauses” designed for entities to validly transfer 
personal data out of the EEA to jurisdictions that the European Commission has not found to provide an adequate level of 
protection, including the United States. Additionally, the U.K.’s International Data Transfer Agreement / Addendum, as 
well as the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the U.K. extension thereto (which allows for transfers to relevant U.S.-
based organizations who self-certify compliance and participate in the Framework) are mechanisms that may be used to 
transfer personal data from the EEA and U.K. to the United States. However, these mechanisms are subject to legal 
challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to 
the United States. Other jurisdictions have enacted or are considering similar cross-border personal data transfer laws 
and local personal data residency laws, any of which would increase the cost and complexity of doing business and could 
result in fines from regulators. For example, China’s law imposes various requirements relating to data processing and 
data localization. Data broadly defined as important under China’s law, including personal data, may not be transferable 
outside of China without prior assessment and approval by the Cyberspace Administration of China, or CAC. Compliance 
with these requirements, including CAC assessments and any deemed failures of such assessments, could cause us to 
incur liability, prevent us from using data collected in China or impact our ability to transfer data outside of China. The 
inability to import personal data to the United States could significantly and negatively impact our business operations, 
limit our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to European, China and other data privacy and security laws, or 
require us to increase our personal data processing capabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at significant expense. Some 
European regulators have prevented companies from transferring personal data out of Europe for allegedly violating the 
GDPR’s cross-border data transfer limitations, which could negatively impact our business.
We may also be bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such 
obligations may not be successful or may be claimed to be non-compliant. For example, certain privacy laws, such as the 
GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. We 
sometimes host personal data in collaboration with our customers, and if a breach exposed or altered that personal data, 
it could harm those customer relationships and subject us to litigation, regulatory action, or fines. We publish privacy 
policies, marketing materials and other statements, such as compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory 
principles, regarding data privacy and security. If these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking 
in transparency, deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement 
actions by regulators or other adverse consequences.

Data protection laws around the world are quickly changing and may be interpreted and applied in an increasingly 
stringent fashion and in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These obligations may affect our product 
design and necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems and practices and to those of any third parties 
that process personal data on our behalf. Despite our efforts, we or third parties we rely upon may fail to comply with 
such obligations. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with data privacy and security obligations, 
we could face significant consequences, including but not limited to, government enforcement actions, litigation, 
additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, bans on processing personal data, and orders to destroy or not use 
personal data. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition.
We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by changes in 
tax laws, higher than expected tax rates and other tax-related factors.
We are subject to complex income tax laws and regulations, as well as non-income-based taxes, in various jurisdictions. 
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are 
regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, 
any adverse outcome could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed 
on our business, and harm our financial position, results of operations, net income, and cash flows.
Further, changes in tax laws or their interpretation by tax authorities in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions could increase our 
future tax liability or cause other adverse tax impacts, which may materially impact our results of operations, or the way 
we conduct our business. Most of our income is taxable in the United States, with a significant portion qualifying for 
preferential treatment as foreign-derived intangible income, or FDII. If U.S. tax rates increase or the FDII deduction is 
reduced, our provision for income taxes, results of operations, net income and cash flows would be adversely affected. In 
addition, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of global implementation of the Inclusive 
Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and Pillar Two Model Rules announced by The Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These and other changes in the foreign tax laws, as adopted by countries, may 
increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations, and financial 
condition.
Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in our business or statutory 
rates, the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, available tax incentives, credits and deductions, 
the expiration of statutes of limitations, changes in accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization 
of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, the estimates of our deferred tax assets and 
liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact 
of accounting for business combinations, as well as changes in the domestic or international organization of our business 
and structure. Furthermore, the tax effects of accounting for stock-based compensation and volatility in our stock price 
may significantly impact our effective tax rate in the period in which they occur. A decline in our stock price may result in 
reduced future tax benefits from stock-based compensation, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our 
financial results.
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings.
We currently and will likely continue to face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or 
investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business. For example, we 
are defending a securities class action lawsuit from multiple shareholders asserting claims that we and certain of our 
officers made false and/or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining 
on GPU demand in 2017 and 2018. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings 
could occur, including monetary damages or fines, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain 
products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An 
unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be 
costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations.
Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows from operations, and prevent us from 
implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.
As of January 28, 2024, we had net outstanding a total of $9.7 billion in notes due by 2060. As each series of senior notes 
matures, unless redeemed or repurchased, we must repay or refinance the notes. If we decide to refinance, we may 
receive less favorable terms, or we may be unable to refinance at all, which may adversely affect our financial condition. 
We also have a $575 million commercial paper program.
Maintenance of our current and future indebtedness and contractual restrictions could cause us to dedicate a substantial 
portion of our cash flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal repayments; increase our 
vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; limit our flexibility regarding 
changes in our business and our industry; impair our ability to obtain future financing; and restrict our ability to grant 
liens on property, enter into certain mergers, dispose of our assets, or materially change our business.
Our ability to comply with the covenants in our indenture may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any 
of the covenants without a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then any outstanding indebtedness may be declared 

immediately due and payable. Changes to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities, 
restrict our ability to obtain future financing and affect the terms of any such financing.
Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a 
change in control.
The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in 
control. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a 
majority of our outstanding stock. These provisions include the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue 
preferred stock, change the number of directors, and to make, amend or repeal our bylaws without prior shareholder 
approval; the inability of our shareholders to act by written consent or call special meetings; advance notice requirements 
for director nominations and shareholder proposals; and a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions 
in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Under our agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox, if someone makes an 
offer to purchase at least 30% of our outstanding common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to 
purchase the stock. These provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA, discourage proxy contests, and 
make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate 
actions they desire.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not applicable.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Risk management and strategy
We have in place certain infrastructure, systems, policies, and procedures that are designed to proactively and reactively 
address circumstances that arise when unexpected events such as a cybersecurity incident occur. These include 
processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. Our information security 
management program generally follows processes outlined in frameworks such as the ISO 27001 international standard 
for Information Security and we evaluate and evolve our security measures as appropriate. We consult with external 
parties, such as cybersecurity firms and risk management and governance experts, on risk management and strategy.
Identifying, assessing, and managing cybersecurity risk is integrated into our overall risk management systems and 
processes, and we have in place cybersecurity and data privacy training and policies designed to (a) respond to new 
requirements in global privacy laws and (b) prevent, detect, respond to, mitigate and recover from identified and 
significant cybersecurity threats.
We also have a vendor risk assessment process consisting of the distribution and review of supplier questionnaires 
designed to help us evaluate cybersecurity risks that we may encounter when working with third parties that have access 
to confidential and other sensitive company information. We take steps designed to ensure that such vendors have 
implemented data privacy and security controls that help mitigate the cybersecurity risks associated with these vendors. 
We routinely assess our high-risk suppliers’ conformance to industry standards (e.g., ISO 27001, ISO 28001, and C-TPAT), 
and we evaluate them for additional information, product, and physical security requirements.
Refer to “Item 1A. Risk factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information about cybersecurity-related 
risks.
Governance
Information security matters, including managing and assessing risks from cybersecurity threats, remain under the 
oversight of the Company’s Board of Directors, or the Board. The Audit Committee of the Board, or the Audit Committee, 
also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies and practices and the 
internal controls regarding information security risks. The Audit Committee receives regular information security updates 
from management, including our Chief Security Officer and members of our security team. The Board also receives 
annual reports on information security matters from our Chief Security Officer and members of our security team.
Our security efforts are managed by a team of executive cybersecurity, IT, engineering, operations, and legal 
professionals. We have established a cross-functional leadership team, consisting of executive-level leaders, that meets 
regularly to review cybersecurity matters and evaluate emerging threats. With oversight and guidance provided by the 
cross-functional leadership team, our information security teams refine our practices to address emerging security risks 
and changes in regulations. Our executive-level leadership team also participates in cybersecurity incident response 
efforts by engaging with the incident response team and helping direct the company’s response to and assessment of 
certain cybersecurity incidents.
We have designated a Chief Security Officer that reports to our Senior Vice President of Software Engineering to manage 
our assessment and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats. Our Chief Security Officer’s cybersecurity 
expertise includes over 17 years of combined government and private sector assignments. 

Item 2. Properties
Our headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. We own and lease approximately 3 million square feet of office and building 
space for our corporate headquarters. In addition, we lease data center space in Santa Clara, California. We also own and 
lease facilities for data centers, research and development, and/or sales and administrative purposes throughout the U.S. 
and in various international locations, primarily in China, India, Israel, and Taiwan. We believe our existing facilities, both 
owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We do not identify or allocate 
assets by operating segment. For additional information regarding obligations under leases, refer to Note 3 of the Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Please see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for a discussion of our legal proceedings.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol NVDA. Public trading of our common 
stock began on January 22, 1999. Prior to that, there was no public market for our common stock. As of February 16, 
2024, we had approximately 382 registered shareholders, not including those shares held in street or nominee name. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
In August 2023, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our share repurchase program of an additional $25.0 
billion, without expiration. During fiscal year 2024, we repurchased 21 million shares of our common stock for $9.7 billion. 
As of January 28, 2024, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our 
common stock up to $22.5 billion.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading 
plan or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with 
Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The 
program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be 
suspended at any time at our discretion.
In fiscal year 2024, we paid $395 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our cash dividend program and the payment of 
future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the 
dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders.
The following table presents details of our share repurchase transactions during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024:
Period
Total Number 
of Shares 
Purchased 
(In millions)
Average Price 
Paid per Share
Total Number of 
Shares Purchased 
as Part of Publicly 
Announced 
Program (In 
millions)
Approximate Dollar 
Value of Shares 
that May Yet Be 
Purchased Under 
the Program (In 
billions)
October 30, 2023 - November 26, 2023
 
0.9 
464.39 
 
0.9 $ 
24.8 
November 27, 2023 - December 24, 

1.1 
477.26 
 
1.1 $ 
24.3 
December 25, 2023 - January 28, 2024
 
3.3 
540.85 
 
3.3 $ 
22.5 
Total
 
5.3 
 
5.3 
From January 29, 2024 to February 16, 2024, we repurchased 2.8 million shares for $1.9 billion pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 
trading plan.
Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding
We withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the 
vesting of RSU awards under our employee equity incentive program. During fiscal year 2024, we withheld 

approximately 7 million shares for a total value of $2.8 billion through net share settlements. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion 
regarding our equity incentive plans.
Stock Performance Graphs 
The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return for our common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the 
Nasdaq 100 Index for the five years ended January 28, 2024. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on January 27, 
2019 in our common stock and in each of the S&P 500 Index and the Nasdaq 100 Index. Our common stock is a 
component of each of the presented indices. Total return assumes reinvestment of dividends in each of the indices 
indicated. Total return is based on historical results and is not intended to indicate future performance.
Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return*
Among NVIDIA Corporation, the S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq 100 Index

 S&P 500
 Nasdaq 100
01/27/19
01/26/20
01/31/21
01/30/22
01/29/23
01/28/24

1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
*$100 invested on 1/27/19 in stock and in indices, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Source: FactSet financial data and analytics.
 
1/27/2019
1/26/2020
1/31/2021
1/30/2022
1/29/2023
1/28/2024

100.00 
157.02 
326.26 
574.15 
512.40 
1,536.28 
S&P 500
100.00 
126.17 
144.83 
175.25 
163.63 
199.83 
Nasdaq 100
100.00 
136.15 
194.20 
218.68 
185.67 
268.13 
Item 6. [Reserved]

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction 
with “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary 
statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell 
shares of our common stock. 
Overview
Our Company and Our Businesses

focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. NVIDIA has 
leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for accelerated computing, AI solutions, scientific computing, data 
science, AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet applications.
Our two operating segments are "Compute & Networking" and "Graphics." Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges
Demand and Supply, Product Transitions, and New Products and Business Models
Demand for our data center systems and products surged in fiscal year 2024. Entering fiscal year 2025, we are gathering 
customer demand indications across several product transitions. We have demand visibility for our new data center 
products ramping later in fiscal year 2025. We have increased our supply and capacity purchases with existing suppliers, 
added new vendors and entered into prepaid manufacturing and capacity agreements. These increased purchase 
volumes, the number of suppliers, and the integration of new vendors into our supply chain may create more complexity 
and execution risk. Our purchase commitments and obligations for inventory and manufacturing capacity at the end of 
fiscal year 2024 were impacted by shortening lead times for certain components. We may continue to enter into new 
supplier and capacity arrangements. Supply of Hopper architecture products is improving, and demand remains very 
strong. We expect our next-generation products to be supply-constrained based upon demand indications. We may incur 
inventory provisions or impairments if our inventory or supply or capacity commitments exceed demand for our products 
or demand declines.
We build finished products and maintain inventory in advance of anticipated demand. While we have entered into longterm supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure sufficient commitments for capacity to address 
our business needs, or our long-term demand expectations may change. These risks may increase as we shorten our 
product development cycles, enter new lines of business, or integrate new suppliers or components into our supply chain, 
creating additional supply chain complexity.
Product transitions are complex as we often ship both new and prior architecture products simultaneously and we and 
our channel partners prepare to ship and support new products. Due to our product introduction cycles, we are almost 
always in various stages of transitioning the architecture of our Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Gaming 
products. We will have a broader and faster Data Center product launch cadence to meet a growing and diverse set of AI 
opportunities. The increased frequency of these transitions may magnify the challenges associated with managing our 
supply and demand due to manufacturing lead times. Qualification time for new products, customers anticipating 
product transitions and channel partners reducing channel inventory of prior architectures ahead of new product 
introductions can create reductions or volatility in our revenue. The increasing frequency and complexity of newly 
introduced products could result in quality or production issues that could increase inventory provisions, warranty or 
other costs or result in product delays. Deployment of new products to customers creates additional challenges due to 
the complexity of our technologies, which has impacted and may in the future impact the timing of customer purchases 
or otherwise impact our demand. While we have managed prior product transitions and have previously sold multiple 
product architectures at the same time, these transitions are difficult, may impair our ability to predict demand and 
impact our supply mix, and we may incur additional costs.
We build technology and introduce products for new and innovative use cases and applications such as our NVIDIA DGX 
Cloud services, Omniverse platform, LLMs, and generative AI models. Our demand estimates for new use cases, 
applications, and services can be incorrect and create volatility in our revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to 
generate significant revenue from these use cases, applications, and services. Recent technologies, such as generative AI 
models, have emerged, and while they have driven increased demand for Data Center, the long-term trajectory is 
unknown.

Global Trade
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the USG, announced licensing requirements that, with certain exceptions, 
impact exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of our A100 and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or 
any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits.
In July 2023, the USG informed us of an additional licensing requirement for a subset of A100 and H100 products 
destined to certain customers and other regions, including some countries in the Middle East.
In October 2023, the USG announced new and updated licensing requirements that became effective in our fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2024 for exports to China and Country Groups D1, D4, and D5 (including but not limited to Saudi 
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam, but excluding Israel) of our products exceeding certain performance 
thresholds, including A100, A800, H100, H800, L4, L40, L40S and RTX 4090. The licensing requirements also apply to the 
export of products exceeding certain performance thresholds to a party headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent 
headquartered in, Country Group D5, including China. On October 23, 2023, the USG informed us the licensing 
requirements were effective immediately for shipments of our A100, A800, H100, H800, and L40S products. Our sales to 
China decreased as a percentage of total Data Center revenue from 19% in fiscal year 2023 to 14% in fiscal year 2024.
We have not received licenses to ship these restricted products to China. We are working to expand our Data Center 
product portfolio to offer new solutions, including those for which the USG does not require a license or advance notice 
before each shipment. We have started to ship alternatives to the China market in small volumes. China represented a 
mid-single digit percentage of our Data Center revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024 due to USG licensing 
requirements and we expect China to be in a similar range in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. To the extent that a 
customer requires products covered by the licensing requirements, we may seek a license for the customer but have no 
assurance that the USG will grant such a license, or that the USG will act on the license application in a timely manner or 
at all.
Our competitive position has been harmed, and our competitive position and future results may be further harmed in the 
long term, if there are further changes in the USG’s export controls. Given the increasing strategic importance of AI and 
rising geopolitical tensions, the USG has changed and may again change the export control rules at any time and further 
subject a wider range of our products to export restrictions and licensing requirements, negatively impacting our 
business and financial results. In the event of such change, we may be unable to sell our inventory of such products and 
may be unable to develop replacement products not subject to the licensing requirements, effectively excluding us from 
all or part of the China market, as well as other impacted markets, including the Middle East.
While we work to enhance the resiliency and redundancy of our supply chain, which is currently concentrated in the AsiaPacific region, new and existing export controls or changes to existing export controls could limit alternative 
manufacturing locations and negatively impact our business. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to 
Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters” for a discussion of this potential impact.
Macroeconomic Factors
Macroeconomic factors, including  inflation, increased interest rates, capital market volatility, global supply chain 
constraints and global economic and geopolitical developments, may have direct and indirect impacts on our results of 
operations, particularly demand for our products. While difficult to isolate and quantify, these macroeconomic factors 
can also impact our supply chain and manufacturing costs, employee wages, costs for capital equipment and value of our 
investments. Our product and solution pricing generally does not fluctuate with short-term changes in our costs. Within 
our supply chain, we continuously manage product availability and costs with our vendors. 
Israel and Hamas Conflict
We are monitoring the impact of the geopolitical conflict in and around Israel on our operations, including the health and 
safety of our approximately 3,700 employees in the region who primarily support the research and development, 
operations, and sales and marketing of our networking products. Our operating expenses in fiscal year 2024 include 
expenses for financial support to impacted employees and charitable activity. We believe our global supply chain for our 
networking products has not experienced any significant impact. Further, in connection with the conflict, a substantial 
number of our employees in the region have been called-up for active military duty in Israel. Accordingly, some of our 
employees in Israel have been absent for an extended period and they or others may continue to be absent, which may 
cause disruption to our product development or operations. We did not experience any significant impact or expense to 
our business; however, if the conflict is further extended, it could impact future product development, operations, and 
revenue or create other uncertainty for our business.

Fiscal Year 2024 Summary
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Change
($ in millions, except per share data)
Revenue
60,922 
26,974 
Up 126%
Gross margin
 72.7 %
 56.9 %
Up 15.8 pts
Operating expenses
11,329 
11,132 
Up 2%
Operating income
32,972 
4,224 
Up 681%
Net income
29,760 
4,368 
Up 581%
Net income per diluted share
11.93 
1.74 
Up 586%
We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These 
platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our 
platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and 
Automotive.
Revenue for fiscal year 2024 was $60.9 billion, up 126% from a year ago.
Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2024 was up 217%. Strong demand was driven by enterprise software and consumer 
internet applications, and multiple industry verticals including automotive, financial services, and healthcare. Customers 
across industry verticals access NVIDIA AI infrastructure both through the cloud and on-premises. Data Center compute 
revenue was up 244% in the fiscal year. Networking revenue was up 133% in the fiscal year. 
Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2024 was up 15%. The increase reflects higher sell-in to partners following the 
normalization of channel inventory levels and growing demand. 
Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2024 was up 1%.
Automotive revenue for the fiscal year 2024 was up 21%. The increase primarily reflected growth in self-driving platforms.
Gross margin increased in fiscal year 2024, primarily driven by Data Center revenue growth and lower net inventory 
provisions as a percentage of revenue.
Operating expenses increased for fiscal year 2024, driven by growth in employees and compensation increases. Fiscal 
year 2023 also included a $1.4 billion acquisition termination charge related to the proposed Arm transaction.
Market Platform Highlights
Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2024 was $47.5 billion, up 217% from fiscal year 2023. In Data Center, we launched AI 
inference platforms that combine our full-stack inference software with NVIDIA Ada, NVIDIA Hopper and NVIDIA Grace 
Hopper processors optimized for generative AI, LLMs and other AI workloads. We introduced NVIDIA DGX Cloud and AI 
Foundations to help businesses create and operate custom large language models and generative AI models. As AV 
algorithms move to video transformers, and more cars are equipped with cameras, we expect NVIDIA’s automotive data 
center processing demand to grow significantly. We estimate that in fiscal year 2024, approximately 40% of Data Center 
revenue was for AI inference. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, large cloud providers represented more than half 
of our Data Center revenue, supporting both internal workloads and external customers. We announced NVIDIA 
Spectrum-X, an accelerated networking platform for AI.
Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2024 was $10.4 billion, up 15% from fiscal year 2023. In Gaming, we launched the GeForce 
RTX 4060 and 4070 GPUs based on the NVIDIA Ada Lovelace architecture. We announced NVIDIA Avatar Cloud Engine for 
Games, a custom AI model foundry service using AI-powered natural language interactions to transform games and 
launched DLSS 3.5 Ray Reconstruction. Additionally, we released TensorRT-LLM for Windows and launched GeForce RTX 
40-Series SUPER GPUs. Gaming reached a milestone of 500 AI-powered RTX games and applications utilizing NVIDIA 
DLSS, ray tracing and other NVIDIA RTX technologies.
Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2024 was $1.6 billion, up 1% from fiscal year 2023. In Professional 
Visualization, we announced new GPUs based on the NVIDIA RTX Ada Lovelace architecture, and announced NVIDIA 
Omniverse Cloud, a fully managed service running in Microsoft Azure, for the development and deployment of industrial 
metaverse applications.
Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2024 was $1.1 billion, up 21% from fiscal year 2023. In Automotive, we announced a 
partnership with MediaTek, which will develop mainstream automotive systems on chips for global OEMs integrating a 
new NVIDIA GPU chiplet IP for AI and graphics. We furthered our collaboration with Foxconn to develop next-generation 

electric vehicles, and announced further adoption of NVIDIA DRIVE platform with BYD, XPENG, GWM, Li Auto, ZEEKR and 
Xiaomi.
Critical Accounting Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the 
United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments 
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of 
contingencies. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty 
and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have critical accounting 
estimates in the areas of inventories, revenue recognition, and income taxes. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant 
accounting policies.
Inventories
We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or 
for obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate 
to excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase 
commitments compared to assumptions about future demand and market conditions, which requires management 
judgment.
Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory or excess product purchase commitments include changes in 
business and economic conditions, changes in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for our 
products, inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, new product 
introductions resulting in less demand for existing products or inconsistent spikes in demand, failure to estimate 
customer demand properly, ordering in advance of historical lead-times, government regulations and the impact of 
changes in future demand, or increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions. Cancellation or 
deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory.
The net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was an 
unfavorable impact of 2.7% in fiscal year 2024 and 7.5% in fiscal year 2023. Our inventory and capacity purchase 
commitments are based on forecasts of future customer demand. We account for our third-party manufacturers' lead 
times and constraints. Our manufacturing lead times can be and have been long, and in some cases, extended beyond 
twelve months for some products. We may place non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in 
advance of our historical lead times, pay premiums and provide deposits to secure future supply and capacity. We also 
adjust to other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new product 
transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our products.
Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further 
discussion.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is 
based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. 
Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an 
anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or 
changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax 
contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine 
that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may 
be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of the end of fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we had a valuation allowance of $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, 
related to capital loss carryforwards, and certain state and other deferred tax assets that management determined are 
not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the 
extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets 
as income tax benefits during the period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.

Revenue Recognition
Revenue Allowances
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for 
estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if 
product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional 
sales return allowances are required to reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. Return rights for certain 
stocking distributors for specific products are contractually limited based on a percentage of prior quarter shipments. 
For shipments to other customers, we do not allow returns, although we may approve returns for credit or refund based 
on applicable facts and circumstances.
We account for customer programs, which involve rebates and marketing development funds, as a reduction in revenue 
and accrue for such programs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. Certain customer programs 
include distributor price incentives or other channel programs for specific products and customer classes which require 
judgement as to whether the applicable incentives will be attained. Estimates for customer program accruals include a 
combination of historical attainment and claim rates and may be adjusted based on relevant internal and external factors.
License and Development Arrangements
Revenue from License and Development Arrangements is recognized over the period in which the development services 
are performed. Each fiscal reporting period, we measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as 
a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. Estimated total cost for each project 
includes a forecast of internal engineer personnel time expected to be incurred and other third-party costs as applicable.
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts may contain more than one performance obligation. Judgement is required in determining whether each 
performance obligation within a customer contract is distinct. Except for License and Development Arrangements, 
NVIDIA products and services function on a standalone basis and do not require a significant amount of integration or 
interdependency. Therefore, multiple performance obligations contained within a customer contract are considered 
distinct and are not combined for revenue recognition purposes.
We allocate the total transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a multiple performance obligations 
arrangement on a relative standalone selling price basis. In certain cases, we can establish standalone selling price based 
on directly observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. If 
standalone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell a product or service separately, we 
determine standalone selling price based on market data and other observable inputs.
Change in Accounting Estimate
In February 2023, we assessed the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment. Based on advances in technology 
and usage rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server, storage, and network equipment from 
three years to a range of four to five years, and assembly and test equipment from five years to seven years. The 
estimated effect of this change for fiscal year 2024 was a benefit of $33 million and $102 million for cost of revenue and 
operating expenses, respectively, which resulted in an increase in operating income of $135 million and net income of 
$114 million after tax, or $0.05 per both basic and diluted share. 
Results of Operations
A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 
is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared 
to fiscal year 2022 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 
2023, filed with the SEC on February 24, 2023, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at http://
www.sec.gov and at our investor relations website, http://investor.nvidia.com.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income 
expressed as a percentage of revenue. 
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Revenue
 100.0 %
 100.0 %
Cost of revenue
 27.3 
 43.1 
Gross profit
 72.7 
 56.9 
Operating expenses
 
Research and development
 14.2 
 27.2 
Sales, general and administrative
 4.4 
 9.1 
Acquisition termination cost
 5.0 
Total operating expenses
 18.6 
 41.3 
Operating income
 54.1 
 15.6 
Interest income
 1.4 
 1.0 
Interest expense
 (0.4) 
 (1.0) 
Other, net
 0.4 
 (0.1) 
Other income (expense), net
 1.4 
 (0.1) 
Income before income tax
 55.5 
 15.5 
Income tax expense (benefit)
 6.6 
 (0.7) 
Net income
 48.9 %
 16.2 %
Reportable Segments
Revenue by Reportable Segments
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Change
Change
($ in millions)
Compute & Networking
47,405 
15,068 
32,337 
 215 %
Graphics
 
13,517 
 
11,906 
 
1,611 
 14 %
Total
60,922 
26,974 
33,948 
 126 %
Operating Income by Reportable Segments
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Change
Change
($ in millions)
Compute & Networking
32,016 
5,083 
26,933 
 530 %
Graphics
 
5,846 
 
4,552 
 
1,294 
 28 %
All Other
 
(4,890) 
(5,411) 

 (10) %
Total
32,972 
4,224 
28,748 
 681 %
Compute & Networking revenue – The year-on-year increase was due to higher Data Center revenue. Compute grew 266% 
due to higher shipments of the NVIDIA Hopper GPU computing platform for the training and inference of LLMs, 
recommendation engines and generative AI applications. Networking was up 133% due to higher shipments of InfiniBand.
Graphics revenue – The year-on-year increase was led by growth in Gaming of 15% driven by higher sell-in to partners 
following the normalization of channel inventory levels.
Reportable segment operating income – The year-on-year increase in Compute & Networking and Graphics operating 
income was driven by higher revenue.

All Other operating loss - The year-on-year decrease was due to the $1.4 billion Arm acquisition termination cost in fiscal 
year 2023, partially offset by a $839 million increase in stock-based compensation expense in fiscal year 2024.
Concentration of Revenue
Revenue by geographic region is designated based on the billing location even if the revenue may be attributable to end 
customers, such as enterprises and gamers in a different location. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the 
United States accounted for 56% and 69% of total revenue for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Our direct and indirect customers include public cloud, consumer internet companies, enterprises, startups, public sector 
entities, OEMs, ODMs, system integrators, AIB, and distributors.
Sales to one customer, Customer A, represented 13% of total revenue for fiscal year 2024, which was attributable to the 
Compute & Networking segment.
One indirect customer which primarily purchases our products through system integrators and distributors, including 
through Customer A, is estimated to have represented approximately 19% of total revenue for fiscal year 2024, 
attributable to the Compute & Networking segment.
Our estimated Compute & Networking demand is expected to remain concentrated.
There were no customers with 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the 
cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board and device costs, 
manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, 
inventory and warranty provisions, memory and component costs, tariffs, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also 
includes acquisition-related costs, development costs for license and service arrangements, IP-related costs, and stockbased compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing operations.
Our overall gross margin increased to 72.7% in fiscal year 2024 from 56.9% in fiscal year 2023. The year over year increase 
was primarily due to strong Data Center revenue growth of 217% and lower net inventory provisions as a percentage of 
revenue.
Provisions for inventory and excess inventory purchase obligations totaled $2.2 billion for both fiscal years 2024 and 
2023. Sales of previously reserved inventory or settlements of excess inventory purchase obligations resulted in a 
provision release of $540 million and $137 million for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. The net effect on our gross 
margin was an unfavorable impact of 2.7% and 7.5% in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Operating Expenses
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Change
Change
 
($ in millions)
Research and development expenses
8,675 
7,339 
1,336 
 18 %
% of net revenue
 14.2 %
 27.2 %
 
 
Sales, general and administrative expenses
 
2,654 
 
2,440 

 9 %
% of net revenue
 4.4 %
 9.1 %
 
 
Acquisition termination cost
 
 
1,353 
 
(1,353) 
 (100) %
% of net revenue
 — %
 5.0 %
Total operating expenses
11,329 
11,132 

 2 %
% of net revenue
 18.6 %
 41.3 %
The increase in research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2024 
was primarily driven by compensation and benefits, including stock-based compensation, reflecting employee growth and 
compensation increases.
Acquisition Termination Cost
We recorded an acquisition termination cost related to the Arm transaction of $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting 
the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.

Other Income (Expense), Net
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Change
 
($ in millions)
Interest income



Interest expense
 
(257) 
(262) 

Other, net

(48) 

Other income (expense), net

(43) $ 

Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. The increase in interest 
income was due to higher yields on higher cash balances.
Interest expense is comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to our notes.
Other, net, consists of realized or unrealized gains and losses from investments in non-affiliated entities and the impact 
of changes in foreign currency rates. Change in Other, net, compared to fiscal year 2023 was driven by changes in value 
from our non-affiliated investments. Refer to Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, 
Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our investments in non-affiliated 
entities.
Income Taxes
We recognized income tax expense of $4.1 billion for fiscal year 2024 and income tax benefit of $187 million for fiscal 
year 2023. Income tax as a percentage of income before income tax was an expense of 12.0% for fiscal year 2024 and a 
benefit of 4.5% for fiscal year 2023.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2024, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, audit of our federal income tax returns 
for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 was resolved. We recognized a non-cash net benefit of $145 million, related to this IRS 
audit resolution, for effectively settled positions. This benefit consists of a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of 
$236 million and related accrued interest of $17 million, net of federal benefit, partially offset by additional cash tax 
payments and reductions in tax attribute carryforwards of $108 million.
The effective tax rate increased due to a decreased impact of tax benefits from the FDII deduction, stock-based 
compensation, and the U.S. federal research tax credit, relative to the increase in income before income tax. The increase 
in the effective tax rate was partially offset by a benefit due to the IRS audit resolution.
Our effective tax rates for fiscal years 2024 and 2023 were lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due primarily 
to tax benefits from the FDII deduction, stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax credit. Our effective 
tax rate for fiscal year 2024 was additionally benefited by the IRS audit resolution.
The OECD has announced an Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting including Pillar Two Model Rules for 
a new 15% global minimum tax applicable to large multinational corporations. Certain jurisdictions, including European 
Union member states and the United Kingdom, have enacted Pillar Two legislation that will start to become effective for 
our fiscal year 2025. The OECD, and its member countries, continue to release new guidance and legislation on Pillar Two 
and we continue to evaluate the impact on our financial position of the global implementation of these rules. Based on 
enacted laws, Pillar Two is not expected to materially impact our effective tax rate or cash flows in the next fiscal year. 
New legislation or guidance could change our current assessment.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
(In millions)
Cash and cash equivalents
7,280 
3,389 
Marketable securities
 
18,704 
 
9,907 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
25,984 
13,296 
 
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
(In millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities
28,090 
5,641 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
(10,566) $ 
7,375 
Net cash used in financing activities
(13,633) $ 
(11,617) 
Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income securities, the diversification of investment 
types and credit exposures, and certain maturity limits on our portfolio.
Cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023, due to growth in 
revenue. Accounts receivable balance in fiscal year 2024 reflected $557 million from customer payments received ahead 
of the invoice due date.
Cash provided by investing activities decreased in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023, primarily driven by lower 
marketable securities maturities and higher purchases of marketable securities.
Cash used in financing activities increased in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023, due to a debt repayment and 
higher tax payments related to RSUs, partially offset by lower share repurchases.
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the cash generated by our 
operations. At the end of fiscal year 2024, we had $26.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We 
believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, and for 
the foreseeable future, including our future supply obligations and $1.3 billion of debt repayment due in fiscal year 2025 
and share purchases. We continuously evaluate our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external 
capital, to ensure we can finance future capital requirements.
Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated 
corporations and financial institutions, and foreign government entities, as well as certificates of deposit issued by highly 
rated financial institutions. These marketable securities are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 8 of the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional 
information.
During fiscal year 2025, we expect to use our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the cash 
generated by our operations to fund our capital investments of approximately $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion related to 
property and equipment.
Except for approximately $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held outside the U.S. for which 
we have not accrued any related foreign or state taxes if we repatriate these amounts to the U.S., substantially all of our 
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2024 are available for 
use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes.
Capital Return to Shareholders
During fiscal year 2024, we paid $395 million in quarterly cash dividends. 
Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board of 
Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the 
best interests of our shareholders.
In August 2023, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our share repurchase program of an additional $25.0 
billion, without expiration. During fiscal year 2024, we repurchased 21 million shares of our common stock for $9.7 billion. 
As of January 28, 2024, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our 

common stock up to $22.5 billion. From January 29, 2024 through February 16, 2024, we repurchased 2.8 million shares 
for $1.9 billion pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. Our share repurchase program aims to offset dilution from shares 
issued to employees. We may pursue additional share repurchases as we weigh market factors and other investment 
opportunities. We plan to continue share repurchases this fiscal year.
The U.S. Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 requires a 1% excise tax on certain share repurchases in excess of shares issued 
for employee compensation made after December 31, 2022 which was not material for fiscal year 2024.
Outstanding Indebtedness and Commercial Paper Program
Our aggregate debt maturities as of January 28, 2024, by year payable, are as follows:
 
Jan 28, 2024
 
(In millions)
Due in one year
1,250 
Due in one to five years
 
2,250 
Due in five to ten years
 
2,750 
Due in greater than ten years
 
3,500 
Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs
 
(41) 
Net carrying amount
 
9,709 
Less short-term portion
 
(1,250) 
Total long-term portion
8,459 
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of the end of fiscal year 
2024, we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for further discussion.
Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations
For a description of our long-term debt, purchase obligations, and operating lease obligations, refer to Note 12, Note 13, 
and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, 
respectively.
We have unrecognized tax benefits of $1.3 billion, which includes related interest and penalties of $140 million, recorded 
in non-current income tax payable at the end of fiscal year 2024. We are unable to estimate the timing of any potential 
tax liability, interest payments, or penalties in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions 
and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Climate Change
To date, there has been no material impact to our results of operations associated with global sustainability regulations, 
compliance, costs from sourcing renewable energy or climate-related business trends.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
Investment and Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. The investment 
portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and growth of 
our businesses.
As of the end of fiscal year 2024, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our investment portfolio. According to our 
analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 0.5% would result in a change in fair value for these investments 
of $93 million.
As of the end of fiscal year 2024, we had $9.7 billion of senior Notes net outstanding. We carry the Notes at face value 
less unamortized discount on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the Notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no 

financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal as our sales are in United States 
dollars and foreign currency forward contracts are used to offset movements of foreign currency exchange rate 
movements. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income or expenses. The impact 
of foreign currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2024 
and 2023.
Sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, 
therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to 
other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. 
Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers 
raising their manufacturing costs.
If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 10% as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, the amount recorded in accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been $116 
million and $112 million lower, respectively. Change in value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
would be expected to offset a corresponding change in hedged forecasted foreign currency expenses when recognized.
If an adverse 10% foreign exchange rate change was applied to our balance sheet hedging contracts, it would have 
resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of $60 million and $36 million as of January 28, 2024 and 
January 29, 2023, respectively. These changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net by 
corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the 
hedge contracts fully cover the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities balances.
Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for additional information. 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The information required by this Item is set forth in our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None. 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on their evaluation as of January 28, 2024, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the 
Exchange Act) were effective to provide reasonable assurance.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as 
such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our 
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the 
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2024 based on the criteria set forth in 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the criteria set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework, our 
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 28, 2024.
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2024 has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included 
herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended January 28, 2024 
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. In 
fiscal year 2022, we began an upgrade of our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system, which will update much of our 

existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records used to report 
operating results. The upgrade will occur in phases. We will continue to evaluate each quarter whether there are changes 
that materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure 
controls and procedures or our internal controls, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well 
conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system 
are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the 
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, 
no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within 
NVIDIA have been detected.
Item 9B. Other Information
On December 18, 2023, John O. Dabiri, a member of our Board of Directors, adopted a trading arrangement that is 
intended to satisfy the affirmative defense conditions of Rule 10b5-1(c) for the sale through December 2, 2024 of an 
estimated 553 shares of our common stock, assuming our closing stock price as of January 26, 2024. The number of 
shares is based on an estimate because the plan specifies a formulaic dollar amount of shares to be sold.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not Applicable.
Part III 
Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this report because we will file with the SEC a definitive proxy 
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A, or the 2024 Proxy Statement, no later than 120 days after the end of fiscal year 
2024, and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
Identification of Directors
Information regarding directors required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Executive Officers
Reference is made to the information regarding executive officers appearing under the heading “Information About Our 
Executive Officers” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Audit Committee and Financial Experts
Information regarding our Audit Committee required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement under 
the captions “Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors” and “Information About the Board of Directors 
and Corporate Governance,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Material Changes to Procedures for Recommending Directors
Information regarding procedures for recommending directors required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy 
Statement under the caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act required by this item will be contained in our 
2024 Proxy Statement under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Code of Conduct
Information regarding our Code of Conduct required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement under the 
caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance - Code of Conduct,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference. The full text of our Code of Conduct and Financial Team Code of Conduct are published on the 
Investor Relations portion of our website, under Governance, at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to either 
code, or grant any waiver from a provision of either code to any executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the 
nature of the amendment or waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K. The contents of our website are not a part 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation
Information regarding our executive compensation required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement 
under the captions “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Director 
Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Report,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters
Ownership of NVIDIA Securities
Information regarding ownership of NVIDIA securities required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Information regarding our equity compensation plans required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement 
under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information," and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
Information regarding related transactions and director independence required by this item will be contained in our 2024 
Proxy Statement under the captions “Review of Transactions with Related Persons” and “Information About the Board of 
Directors and Corporate Governance - Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
Information regarding accounting fees and services required by this item will be contained in our 2024 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference. 

Part IV
Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 
Page
(a)
Financial Statements
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238)

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended January 28, 2024, January 29, 2023, and 
January 30, 2022

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended January 28, 2024, January 
29, 2023, and January 30, 2022

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended January 28, 2024, January 
29, 2023, and January 30, 2022

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 28, 2024, January 29, 2023, 
and January 30, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial Statement Schedule
 
 
Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended January 28, 2024, January 29, 
2023, and January 30, 2022

Exhibits
 
 
The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as a 
part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of NVIDIA Corporation
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the 
“Company”) as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 
2024, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) 
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control 
over financial reporting as of January 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework 
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Company as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows 
for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2024 in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective 
internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal 
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, 
included in Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our 
responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in 
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of 
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that 
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal 
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated 
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates 
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially 
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit 
matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it 
relates.
Valuation of Inventories - Provisions for Excess or Obsolete Inventories and Excess Product Purchase Commitments
As described in Notes 1, 10 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company charges cost of sales for 
inventory provisions to write-down inventory for excess or obsolete inventory and for excess product purchase 
commitments. Most of the Company’s inventory provisions relate to excess quantities of products, based on the 
Company’s inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand 
and market conditions. As of January 28, 2024, the Company’s consolidated inventories balance was $5.3 billion and the 
Company’s consolidated outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply and capacity obligations balance was 
$16.1 billion, of which a significant portion relates to inventory purchase obligations. 
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of inventories, 
specifically the provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess product purchase commitments, is a critical audit 
matter are the significant judgment by management when developing provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and 
excess product purchase commitments, including developing assumptions related to future demand and market 
conditions. This in turn led to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and 
evaluating management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. 
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to management’s provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess product purchase commitments, 
including controls over management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. These procedures 
also included, among others, testing management’s process for developing the provisions for excess or obsolete 
inventories and excess product purchase commitments; evaluating the appropriateness of management’s approach; 
testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the approach; and evaluating the reasonableness of 
management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. Evaluating management’s assumptions 
related to future demand and market conditions involved evaluating whether the assumptions used by management were 
reasonable considering (i) current and past results, including historical product life cycle, (ii) the consistency with external 
market and industry data, and (iii) changes in technology. 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
February 21, 2024
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2004. 

Consolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share data)
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
Revenue
60,922 
26,974 
26,914 
Cost of revenue
 
16,621 
 
11,618 
 
9,439 
Gross profit
 
44,301 
 
15,356 
 
17,475 
Operating expenses
 
 
 
Research and development
 
8,675 
 
7,339 
 
5,268 
Sales, general and administrative
 
2,654 
 
2,440 
 
2,166 
Acquisition termination cost
 
 
1,353 
 
Total operating expenses
 
11,329 
 
11,132 
 
7,434 
Operating income
 
32,972 
 
4,224 
 
10,041 
Interest income

Interest expense
 
(257) 
(262) 
(236) 
Other, net

(48) 

Other income (expense), net

(43) 
(100) 
Income before income tax
 
33,818 
 
4,181 
 
9,941 
Income tax expense (benefit)
 
4,058 
 
(187) 

Net income
29,760 
4,368 
9,752 
Net income per share:
Basic
12.05 
1.76 
3.91 
Diluted
11.93 
1.74 
3.85 
Weighted average shares used in per share computation:
Basic
 
2,469 
 
2,487 
 
2,496 
Diluted
 
2,494 
 
2,507 
 
2,535 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(In millions)
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
Net income
29,760 
4,368 
9,752 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
Available-for-sale securities:
Net change in unrealized gain (loss)

(31) 
(16) 
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain included in net 
income

Net change in unrealized gain (loss)

(30) 
(16) 
Cash flow hedges:
Net change in unrealized gain (loss)

(43) 
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in 
net income
 
(48) 
(49) 

Net change in unrealized loss
 
(10) 
(2) 
(14) 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

(32) 
(30) 
Total comprehensive income
29,830 
4,336 
9,722 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions, except par value)
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Assets
 
 
Current assets:
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
7,280 
3,389 
Marketable securities
 
18,704 
 
9,907 
Accounts receivable, net
 
9,999 
 
3,827 
Inventories
 
5,282 
 
5,159 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
3,080 

Total current assets
 
44,345 
 
23,073 
Property and equipment, net
 
3,914 
 
3,807 
Operating lease assets
 
1,346 
 
1,038 
Goodwill
 
4,430 
 
4,372 
Intangible assets, net
 
1,112 
 
1,676 
Deferred income tax assets
 
6,081 
 
3,396 
Other assets
 
4,500 
 
3,820 
Total assets
65,728 
41,182 
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
Current liabilities:
 
 
Accounts payable
2,699 
1,193 
Accrued and other current liabilities
 
6,682 
 
4,120 
Short-term debt
 
1,250 
 
1,250 
Total current liabilities
 
10,631 
 
6,563 
Long-term debt
 
8,459 
 
9,703 
Long-term operating lease liabilities 
 
1,119 

Other long-term liabilities
 
2,541 
 
1,913 
Total liabilities
 
22,750 
 
19,081 
Commitments and contingencies - see Note 13
Shareholders’ equity:
 
 
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; 2 shares authorized; none issued
 
 
Common stock, $0.001 par value; 8,000 shares authorized; 2,464 shares 
issued and outstanding as of January 28, 2024; 2,466 shares issued and 
outstanding as of January 29, 2023

Additional paid-in capital
 
13,132 
 
11,971 
 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(43) 
Retained earnings
 
29,817 
 
10,171 
Total shareholders' equity
 
42,978 
 
22,101 
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
65,728 
41,182 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Common Stock
Outstanding
Additional 
Paid-in
Treasury
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive
Retained
Total 
Shareholders'
Shares
Amount
Capital
 Stock
 Income (Loss)
 Earnings
 Equity
(In millions, except per share data)
Balances, Jan 31, 2021
 
2,479 

8,719 
$ (10,756) $ 

18,908 
16,893 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,752 
 
9,752 
Other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
(30) 
 
(30) 
Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(8) 
 
(614) 
(1,290) 
 
 
(1,904) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(399) 
(399) 
Fair value of partially vested equity awards assumed in connection with acquisitions
 


Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
2,001 
 
 
 
 
2,001 
Retirement of Treasury Stock
 
 
 
(20) 
12,046 
 
 
(12,026) 
Balances, Jan 30, 2022
 
2,506 

10,385 
 
 
(11) 
16,235 
 
26,612 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,368 
 
4,368 
Other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
(32) 
 
(32) 
Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(8) 
 
(1,475) 
 
 
 
(1,475) 
Shares repurchased
 
(63) 
(1) 
(4) 
 
 
(10,034) 
(10,039) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(398) 
(398) 
Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
2,710 
 
 
 
 
2,710 
Balances, Jan 29, 2023
 
2,466 

11,971 
 
 
(43) 
10,171 
 
22,101 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
29,760 
 
29,760 
Other comprehensive income
 
 
 

Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(7) 
 
(2,783) 
 
 
 
(2,783) 
Shares repurchased
 
(21) 
 
(27) 
 
 
(9,719) 
(9,746) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(395) 
(395) 
Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
3,568 
 
 
 
 
3,568 
Balances, Jan 28, 2024
 
2,464 

13,132 

29,817 
42,978 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions)
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
Net income
29,760 
4,368 
9,752 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating 
activities:
 
 
Stock-based compensation expense
 
3,549 
 
2,709 
 
2,004 
Depreciation and amortization
 
1,508 
 
1,544 
 
1,174 
Deferred income taxes
 
(2,489) 
(2,164) 
(406) 
(Gains) losses on investments in non-affiliated entities, net
 
(238) 

(100) 
Acquisition termination cost
 
 
1,353 
 
Other
 
(278) 
(7) 

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
 
 
Accounts receivable
 
(6,172) 

(2,215) 
Inventories
 
(98) 
(2,554) 
(774) 
Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
(1,522) 
(1,517) 
(1,715) 
Accounts payable
 
1,531 
 
(551) 

Accrued and other current liabilities
 
2,025 
 
1,341 

Other long-term liabilities

Net cash provided by operating activities
 
28,090 
 
5,641 
 
9,108 
Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities
 
9,732 
 
19,425 
 
15,197 
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities

1,806 
 
1,023 
Purchases of marketable securities
 
(18,211) 
(11,897) 
(24,787) 
Purchases related to property and equipment and intangible 
assets
 
(1,069) 
(1,833) 
(976) 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
 
(83) 
(49) 
(263) 
Investments in non-affiliated entities and other, net
 
(985) 
(77) 
(24) 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
(10,566) 
7,375 
 
(9,830) 
Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
Proceeds related to employee stock plans

Payments related to repurchases of common stock
 
(9,533) 
(10,039) 
Payments related to tax on restricted stock units
 
(2,783) 
(1,475) 
(1,904) 
Repayment of debt
 
(1,250) 
 
(1,000) 
Dividends paid
 
(395) 
(398) 
(399) 
Principal payments on property and equipment and intangible 
assets
 
(74) 
(58) 
(83) 
Issuance of debt, net of issuance costs
 
 
 
4,977 
Other
 
(1) 
(2) 
(7) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
(13,633) 
(11,617) 
1,865 
Change in cash and cash equivalents
 
3,891 
 
1,399 
 
1,143 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
3,389 
 
1,990 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
7,280 
3,389 
1,990 
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
Cash paid for income taxes, net
6,549 
1,404 

Cash paid for interest



See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Our Company
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Fiscal Year
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022 were all 52week years.
Principles of Consolidation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All 
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those 
related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories and product 
purchase commitments, income taxes, goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement costs, 
restructuring and other charges, property, plant, and equipment, and other contingencies. These estimates are based on 
historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
In February 2023, we assessed the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment. Based on advances in technology 
and usage rate, we increased the estimated useful life of most of our server, storage, and network equipment from three 
to four or five years, and our assembly and test equipment from five to seven years. The effect of this change for the 
fiscal year ended January 28, 2024 was a benefit of $33 million and $102 million for cost of revenue and operating 
expenses, respectively, which resulted in an increase in operating income of $135 million and net income of $114 million 
after tax, or $0.05 per both basic and diluted share.
Revenue Recognition
We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, 
software licensing, and cloud services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification 
of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the 
transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (where revenue is 
allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the 
standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a 
performance obligation.
Product Sales Revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Certain products are sold with support or an 
extended warranty for the incorporated system, hardware, and/or software. Support and extended warranty revenue are 
recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for 
returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for 
estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if 
product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional 
sales return allowances are required to accurately reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in 
various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that 
are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also 
promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for such programs 
for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

License and Development Arrangements
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our IP 
components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a 
single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to 
completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each 
project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Software Licensing
Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software when it is made available to the customer. 
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over 
which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with the right to receive, on a 
when-and-if available basis, future unspecified software updates and upgrades. Revenue from software licenses is 
recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. Software support revenue is recognized ratably 
over the service period, or as services are performed.
Cloud Services
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software and hardware infrastructure without taking possession of 
the software or hardware, are provided on a subscription basis or a combination of subscription plus usage. Revenue 
related to subscription-based cloud services is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud 
services based on usage is recognized as usage occurs. Cloud services are typically sold on a standalone basis, but certain 
offerings may be sold with hardware and/or software and related support. 
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts may contain more than one of the products and services listed above, each of which is separately 
accounted for as a distinct performance obligation. We account for multiple agreements with a single customer as a 
single contract if the contractual terms and/or substance of those agreements indicate that they may be so closely 
related that they are, in effect, parts of a single contract.
We allocate the total transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a multiple performance obligations 
arrangement on a relative standalone selling price basis. The standalone selling price reflects the price we would charge 
for a specific product or service if it were sold separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. When 
determining standalone selling price, we maximize the use of observable inputs. 
If a contract contains a single performance obligation, no allocation is required.
Product Warranties
We offer a limited warranty to end-users ranging from one to three years for products to repair or replace products for 
manufacturing defects or hardware component failures. Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product 
warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an 
extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. We also accrue for known warranty and indemnification 
issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Stock-based Compensation
We use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant, minus a dividend yield discount, as the fair 
value of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units that are based on our corporate financial 
performance targets, or PSUs. We use a Monte Carlo simulation on the date of grant to estimate the fair value of 
performance stock units that are based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs. The compensation expense for 
RSUs and market-based PSUs is recognized using a straight-line attribution method over the requisite employee service 
period while compensation expense for PSUs is recognized using an accelerated amortization model. We estimate the fair 
value of shares to be issued under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, using the Black-Scholes model at the 
commencement of an offering period in March and September of each year. Stock-based compensation for our ESPP is 
expensed using an accelerated amortization model. Additionally, for RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards, we 
estimate forfeitures semi-annually and revise the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ 
from those estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience.
Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs
We currently, are, and will likely continue to be subject to claims, litigation, and other actions, including potential 
regulatory proceedings, involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, 
competition and antitrust, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. 
There are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigation, and we cannot be certain that these actions 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

or other third-party claims against us will be resolved without litigation, fines and/or substantial settlement payments or 
judgments. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our pending litigation, 
investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events, we will 
record the loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigation may be 
materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs.
Foreign Currency Remeasurement
We use the U.S. dollar as our functional currency for our subsidiaries. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
remeasured into United States dollars at end-of-period exchange rates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities such as 
property and equipment and equity are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are remeasured 
at exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to non-monetary balance sheet 
amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are 
included in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income and to date have not been significant.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or 
refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or 
liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; 
and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on 
available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing 
with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change 
based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in 
the U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize 
liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to 
which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax 
liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income 
tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of January 28, 2024, we had a valuation allowance of $1.6 billion related to capital loss carryforwards, and certain state 
and other deferred tax assets that management determined are not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional 
projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes 
more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as income tax benefits during the period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Net Income Per Share
Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common and potentially dilutive 
shares outstanding during the period, using the treasury stock method. Any anti-dilutive effect of equity awards 
outstanding is not included in the computation of diluted net income per share.
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
We consider all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and have an original maturity of three 
months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. Marketable securities consist of highly liquid debt 
investments with maturities of greater than three months when purchased. We currently classify our investments as 
current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations.
We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt securities at the date of acquisition as 
available-for-sale. These available-for-sale debt securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and 
losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. The 
fair value of interest-bearing debt securities includes accrued interest. Realized gains and losses on the sale of 
marketable securities are determined using the specific-identification method and recorded in the other income 
(expense), net, section of our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Available-for-sale debt investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. If the estimated fair value of availablefor-sale debt securities is less than its amortized cost basis, we determine if the difference, if any, is caused by expected 
credit losses and write-down the amortized cost basis of the securities if it is more likely than not we will be required or 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

we intend to sell the securities before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Allowances for credit losses and write-downs 
are recognized in the other income (expense), net section of our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying value of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their fair 
values due to their relatively short maturities as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023. Marketable securities are 
comprised of available-for-sale securities that are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains or losses 
included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. Fair value 
of the marketable securities is determined based on quoted market prices. Derivative instruments are recognized as 
either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative 
depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated as fair 
value hedges, the gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the periods of change together with the offsetting losses 
or gains on the hedged items attributed to the risk being hedged. For derivative instruments designated as cash-flow 
hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses on the derivatives is initially reported as a component of other 
comprehensive income or loss and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is recognized in 
earnings. For derivative instruments not designated for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognized in 
earnings.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, 
marketable securities, and accounts receivable. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly-rated fixed income 
securities, the diversification of investment type and credit exposures, and includes certain limits on our portfolio 
duration. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and maintain an allowance for 
potential credit losses. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on 
overall estimated exposure. Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit insurance and letters of 
credit.
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, firstout basis. Inventory costs consist primarily of the cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing 
and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test 
yield fallout, and shipping costs, as well as the cost of purchased memory products and other component parts. We 
charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or for 
obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate to 
excess quantities of products, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to 
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Once inventory has been written-off or written-down, it 
creates a new cost basis for the inventory that is not subsequently written-up. We record a liability for noncancelable 
purchase commitments with suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our 
valuation of obsolete or excess inventory.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is 
computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets of three to seven years. Once 
an asset is identified for retirement or disposition, the related cost and accumulated depreciation or amortization are 
removed, and a gain or loss is recorded. The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Depreciation 
expense includes the amortization of assets recorded under finance leases. Leasehold improvements and assets recorded 
under finance leases are amortized over the shorter of the expected lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 
months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease 
liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the 
lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments 
discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and 
prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease 
when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of 
potential impairment exist. In completing our impairment test, we perform either a qualitative or a quantitative 
analysis on a reporting unit basis. 
Qualitative factors include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, and other relevant events 
and factors affecting the reporting units. 
The quantitative impairment test considers both the income approach and the market approach to estimate a reporting 
unit’s fair value. The income and market valuation approaches consider factors that include, but are not limited to, 
prospective financial information, growth rates, residual values, discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly 
traded companies in our industry and require us to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic 
factors and the future profitability of our business. 
Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets
Intangible assets primarily represent acquired intangible assets including developed technology and customer 
relationships, as well as rights acquired under technology licenses, patents, and acquired IP. We currently amortize our 
intangible assets with finite lives over periods ranging from one to twenty years using a method that reflects the pattern 
in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up or, if that pattern cannot be 
reliably determined, using a straight-line amortization method. 
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group 
may not be recoverable. The recoverability of assets or asset groups to be held and used is measured by a comparison of 
the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated 
by the asset or asset group. If the carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an 
impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the 
estimated fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined based on the estimated discounted future cash 
flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. Assets and liabilities to be disposed of would be separately 
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the assets would be reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair 
value less costs to sell, and would no longer be depreciated.
Business Combination
We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and 
intangible assets acquired, based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over 
the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Management’s estimates of 
fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our estimates and assumptions are inherently 
uncertain and subject to refinement. The estimates and assumptions used in valuing intangible assets include, but are not 
limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, discount rate used to determine the present value of 
these cash flows and asset lives. These estimates are inherently uncertain and, therefore, actual results may differ from 
the estimates made. As a result, during the measurement period of up to one year from the acquisition date, we may 
record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the 
measurement period's conclusion or final determination of the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition, 
whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and expensed as incurred.
Investments in Non-Affiliated Entities
Our investment in non-affiliates consists of marketable equity securities, which are publicly traded, and non-marketable 
equity securities, which are investments in privately held companies. Marketable equity securities have readily 
determinable fair values with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net. Non-marketable equity 
securities include investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value. The investments that do not have readily 
determinable fair value are measured at cost minus impairment, if any, and are adjusted for changes resulting from 
observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer, or the 
measurement alternative. Fair value is based upon observable inputs in an inactive market and the valuation requires our 
judgment due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. All gains and losses on these investments, 
realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), net on our Consolidated Statements of Income. 
We assess whether an impairment loss has occurred on our investments in non-marketable equity securities, accounted 
for under the measurement alternative based on quantitative and qualitative factors. If any impairment is identified for 
non-marketable equity securities, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the corresponding charge 
through other income (expense), net on our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued a new accounting standard to provide for 
additional disclosures about significant expenses in operating segments. The standard is effective for our annual 
reporting for fiscal year 2025 and for interim period reporting starting in fiscal year 2026 retrospectively. We are 
currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In December 2023, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides for new and changes to income tax 
disclosures including disaggregation of the rate reconciliation and income taxes paid disclosures. The amendments in the 
standard are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted and should be 
applied prospectively, with retrospective application permitted. We expect to adopt this standard in our annual period 
beginning fiscal year 2026. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Note 2 - Business Combination
Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement
In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp, or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase 
Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate it due to 
significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination 
cost of $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.
Note 3 - Leases
Our lease obligations primarily consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international 
office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2025 and 2035.
Future minimum lease payments under our non-cancelable operating leases as of January 28, 2024, are as follows: 
Operating Lease 
Obligations
 
(In millions)
Fiscal Year:


2030 and thereafter

Total
 
1,539 
Less imputed interest

Present value of net future minimum lease payments
 
1,347 
Less short-term operating lease liabilities

Long-term operating lease liabilities
1,119 
In addition, we have operating leases, primarily for our data centers, that are expected to commence within fiscal year 
2025 with lease terms of 1 to 10 years for $1.1 billion.
Operating lease expenses for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 were $269 million, $193 million, $168 million, respectively. 
Short-term and variable lease expenses for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 were not significant. 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Other information related to leases was as follows:
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions)
Supplemental cash flows information
 
Operating cash flows used for operating leases
286 $ 
184 $ 

Operating lease assets obtained in exchange 
for lease obligations
531 $ 
358 $ 

As of January 28, 2024, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 6.1 years and a weighted 
average discount rate of 3.76%. As of January 29, 2023, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease 
term of 6.8 years and a weighted average discount rate of 3.21%.
Note 4 - Stock-Based Compensation
Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with RSUs, performance stock units based on our corporate 
financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs, and 
our ESPP.
Our Consolidated Statements of Income include stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts allocated to 
inventory, as follows:
 
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions)
Cost of revenue



Research and development
 
2,532 
 
1,892 
 
1,298 
Sales, general and administrative

Total
3,549 
2,710 
2,004 
Stock-based compensation capitalized in inventories was not significant during fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022. 
The following is a summary of equity awards granted under our equity incentive plans:
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
(In millions, except per share data)
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs
Awards granted

Estimated total grant-date fair value
5,316 
4,505 
3,492 
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share
374.08 
183.72 
190.69 
ESPP
Shares purchased

Weighted average price per share
158.07 
122.54 
56.36 
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share
69.90 
51.87 
23.24 
As of January 28, 2024, there was $8.6 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense. This amount is 
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 0.8 
years for ESPP.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

The fair value of shares issued under our ESPP have been estimated with the following assumptions:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
(Using the Black-Scholes model)
ESPP
Weighted average expected life (in years)
0.1-2.0
0.1-2.0
0.1-2.0
Risk-free interest rate
3.9%-5.5%
—%-4.6%
—%-0.5%
Volatility
31%-67%
43%-72%
20%-58%
Dividend yield
0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
For ESPP shares, the expected term represents the average term from the first day of the offering period to the 
purchase date. The risk-free interest rate assumption used to value ESPP shares is based upon observed interest rates on 
Treasury bills appropriate for the expected term. Our expected stock price volatility assumption for ESPP is estimated 
using historical volatility. For awards granted, we use the dividend yield at grant date. Our RSU, PSU, and market-based 
PSU awards are not eligible for cash dividends prior to vesting; therefore, the fair values of RSUs, PSUs, and market-based 
PSUs are discounted for the dividend yield.
Additionally, for RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards, we estimate forfeitures semi-annually and revise the estimates 
of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on 
historical experience.
Equity Incentive Program
We grant or have granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs, market-based PSUs, and stock purchase rights under the following 
equity incentive plans. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions of various companies, we have assumed certain 
stock-based awards granted under their stock incentive plans and converted them into our RSUs.
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
In 2007, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, or as most recently amended and 
restated, the 2007 Plan.
The 2007 Plan authorizes the issuance of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock, RSUs, 
stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards to 
employees, directors and consultants. Only our employees may receive incentive stock options. As of January 28, 2024, up 
to 37 million shares of our common stock could be issued pursuant to stock awards granted under the 2007 Plan. 
Currently, we grant RSUs, PSUs and market-based PSUs under the 2007 Plan, under which, as of January 28, 2024, there 
were 147 million shares available for future grants.
Subject to certain exceptions, RSUs granted to employees vest (A) over a four-year period, subject to continued service, 
with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 6.25% vesting 
quarterly thereafter, (B) over a three-year period, subject to continued service, with 40% vesting on a pre-determined date 
that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 7.5% vesting quarterly thereafter, or (C) over a four-year period, 
subject to continued service, with 6.25% vesting quarterly. PSUs vest over a four-year period, subject to continued 
service, with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 6.25% vesting 
quarterly thereafter. Market-based PSUs vest 100% on about the three-year anniversary of the date of grant. However, 
the number of shares subject to both PSUs and market-based PSUs that are eligible to vest is determined by the 
Compensation Committee based on achievement of pre-determined criteria.
Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In 2012, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or as most recently 
amended and restated, the 2012 Plan.
Employees who participate in the 2012 Plan may have up to 15% of their earnings withheld to purchase shares of 
common stock. The Board may decrease this percentage at its discretion. Each offering period is about 24 months, 
divided into four purchase periods of six months. The price of common stock purchased under our 2012 Plan will be equal 
to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the commencement date of each offering period or 
the fair market value of the common stock on each purchase date within the offering. As of January 28, 2024, we had 
227 million shares reserved for future issuance under the 2012 Plan.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Equity Award Activity
The following is a summary of our equity award transactions under our equity incentive plans: 
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs Outstanding
 
Number of Shares
Weighted Average 
Grant-Date Fair Value
(In millions, except per share data)
Balances, Jan 29, 2023

158.45 
Granted

374.08 
Vested restricted stock
 
(21) $ 
148.56 
Canceled and forfeited
 
(1) $ 
206.35 
Balances, Jan 28, 2024

245.94 
Vested and expected to vest after Jan 28, 2024

245.49 
As of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, there were 147 million and 160 million shares, respectively, of common 
stock available for future grants under our equity incentive plans. 
The total fair value of RSUs and PSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended January 28, 2024, 
January 29, 2023, and January 30, 2022, was $8.2 billion, $4.3 billion, and $5.6 billion, respectively.
Note 5 - Net Income Per Share
The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the 
periods presented:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions, except per share data)
Numerator:
 
 
 
Net income
29,760 
4,368 
9,752 
Denominator:
 
 
 
Basic weighted average shares
 
2,469 
 
2,487 
 
2,496 
Dilutive impact of outstanding equity awards

Diluted weighted average shares
 
2,494 
 
2,507 
 
2,535 
Net income per share:
 
 
 
Basic (1)
12.05 
1.76 
3.91 
Diluted (2)
11.93 
1.74 
3.85 
Equity awards excluded from diluted net income per share because 
their effect would have been anti-dilutive

(1) 
Calculated as net income divided by basic weighted average shares.
(2) 
Calculated as net income divided by diluted weighted average shares.
Note 6 - Goodwill
As of January 28, 2024, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.4 billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated to 
our Compute & Networking and Graphics reporting units of $4.1 billion and $370 million, respectively. As of January 29, 
2023, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.4 billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated to our Compute & 
Networking and Graphics reporting units of $4.0 billion and $370 million, respectively. Goodwill increased by $59 million in 
fiscal year 2024 from an immaterial acquisition and was allocated to our Compute & Networking reporting unit. During 
the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, we completed our annual qualitative impairment tests and 
concluded that goodwill was not impaired. 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 7 - Amortizable Intangible Assets
The components of our amortizable intangible assets are as follows:
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
 
(In millions)
Acquisition-related 
intangible assets (1)
2,642 
(1,720) $ 

3,093 
(1,614) $ 
1,479 
Patents and licensed 
technology

(259) 

(249) 

Total intangible assets
3,091 
(1,979) $ 
1,112 
3,539 
(1,863) $ 
1,676 
(1) During the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we commenced amortization of a $630 million in-process research and development 
intangible asset related to our acquisition of Mellanox.
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 was $614 million, $699 
million, and $563 million, respectively.
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible 
assets as of January 28, 2024:
Future Amortization Expense
 
(In millions)
Fiscal Year:


2030 and thereafter

Total
1,112 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 8 - Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt 
securities.
The following is a summary of cash equivalents and marketable securities:
 
Jan 28, 2024
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash 
Equivalents
Marketable 
Securities
 
(In millions)
Corporate debt securities
10,126 

(5) $ 
10,152 
2,231 
7,921 
Debt securities issued by the 
U.S. Treasury
 
9,517 

(10) 
9,524 
 
1,315 
 
8,209 
Debt securities issued by U.S. 
government agencies
 
2,326 

(1) 
2,333 

2,244 
Money market funds
 
3,031 
 
 
 
3,031 
 
3,031 
 
Certificates of deposit

Foreign government bonds

Total
25,684 

(16) $ 
25,724 
7,020 
18,704 
 
Jan 29, 2023
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash 
Equivalents
Marketable 
Securities
 
(In millions)
Corporate debt securities
4,809 
(12) $ 
4,797 
1,087 
3,710 
Debt securities issued by the 
U.S. Treasury
 
4,185 

(44) 
4,142 
 
 
4,142 
Debt securities issued by U.S. 
government agencies
 
1,836 
 
 
(2) 
1,834 

1,784 
Money market funds
 
1,777 
 
 
 
1,777 
 
1,777 
 
Certificates of deposit

Foreign government bonds

Total
13,112 

(58) $ 
13,055 
3,148 
9,907 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

The following tables provide the breakdown of unrealized losses, aggregated by investment category and length of time 
that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position:
Jan 28, 2024
 
Less than 12 Months
12 Months or Greater
Total
 
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
 
(In millions)
Debt securities issued by the 
U.S. Treasury
3,343 
(5) $ 
1,078 
(5) $ 
4,421 $ 
(10) 
Corporate debt securities
 
1,306 
 
(3) 

(2) 
1,924 
(5) 
Debt securities issued by U.S. 
government agencies

(1) 

(1) 
Total
5,319 
(9) $ 
1,696 
(7) $ 
7,015 $ 
(16) 
Jan 29, 2023
 
Less than 12 Months
12 Months or Greater
Total
 
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
Estimated 
Fair Value
Gross 
Unrealized 
Loss
 
(In millions)
Debt securities issued by the 
U.S. Treasury
2,444 
(21) $ 
1,172 
(23) $ 
3,616 $ 
(44) 
Corporate debt securities
 
1,188 
 
(7) 

(5) 
1,884 
(12) 
Debt securities issued by U.S. 
government agencies
 
1,307 
 
(2) 
 
1,307 
(2) 
Total
4,939 
(30) $ 
1,868 
(28) $ 
6,807 $ 
(58) 
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, driven primarily by changes in interest rates. Net 
realized gains and losses were not significant for all periods presented. 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities are shown below by 
contractual maturity.
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
 
(In millions)
Less than one year
16,336 
16,329 
9,738 
9,708 
Due in 1 - 5 years
 
9,348 
 
9,395 
 
3,374 
 
3,347 
Total
25,684 
25,724 
13,112 
13,055 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 9 - Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities and Investments in Non-Affiliated Entities
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or 
quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly 
basis.
Fair Value at
Pricing Category
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
(In millions)
Assets
Cash equivalents and marketable securities:
Money market funds
Level 1
3,031 
1,777 
Corporate debt securities
Level 2
10,152 
4,797 
Debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury
Level 2
9,524 
4,142 
Debt securities issued by U.S. government agencies
Level 2
2,333 
1,834 
Certificates of deposit
Level 2


Foreign government bonds
Level 2


Other assets (Investment in non-affiliated entities):
Publicly-held equity securities
Level 1


Liabilities (1)
0.309% Notes Due 2023
Level 2
1,230 
0.584% Notes Due 2024
Level 2
1,228 
1,185 
3.20% Notes Due 2026
Level 2


1.55% Notes Due 2028
Level 2
1,115 
1,099 
2.85% Notes Due 2030
Level 2
1,367 
1,364 
2.00% Notes Due 2031
Level 2
1,057 
1,044 
3.50% Notes Due 2040
Level 2


3.50% Notes Due 2050
Level 2
1,604 
1,637 
3.70% Notes Due 2060
Level 2


(1) 
These liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their original issuance value, net of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs.
Investments in Non-Affiliated Entities
Our investments in non-affiliated entities include marketable equity securities, which are publicly traded, and nonmarketable equity securities, which are primarily investments in privately held companies. Our marketable equity 
securities have readily determinable fair values and are recorded as long-term other assets on our Consolidated Balance 
Sheets at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in Other income and expense, net on our Consolidated Statements 
of Income. Marketable equity securities totaled $225 million and $11 million as of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, 
respectively. The net unrealized and realized gains and losses of investments in marketable securities net were not 
significant for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022.
Our non-marketable equity securities are recorded in long-term other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities totaled $1.3 billion and $288 million as of January 28, 2024 and 
January 29, 2023, respectively. Gains and losses on these investments, realized and unrealized, are recognized in Other 
income and expense, net on our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Adjustments to the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement 
alternative were as follows:
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
(In millions)
Carrying amount as of Jan 29, 2023

Adjustments related to non-marketable equity securities:
Net additions

Unrealized gains

Impairments and unrealized losses
 
(20) 
Carrying amount as of Jan 28, 2024
1,321 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, one of our private company investments completed a secondary equity raise 
that resulted in an unrealized gain of $178 million.
Net unrealized gains recognized for the year ended January 28, 2024 for non-marketable investments in non-affiliated 
entities still held as of January 28, 2024 were $174 million. Net unrealized and realized gains related to non-marketable 
equity securities were not significant for fiscal years 2023 and 2022.
The following table summarizes the cumulative gross unrealized gains and cumulative gross unrealized losses and 
impairments related to non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative:
Jan 28, 2024
(In millions)
Cumulative gross unrealized gains

Cumulative gross unrealized losses and impairments
 
(45) 
Note 10 - Balance Sheet Components
Two customers accounted for 24% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 28, 2024. Two customers 
accounted for 14% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 29, 2023.
Certain balance sheet components are as follows:
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
(In millions)
Inventories (1):
Raw materials
1,719 
2,430 
Work in-process
 
1,505 

Finished goods
 
2,058 
 
2,263 
Total inventories
5,282 
5,159 
(1) In fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we recorded an inventory provision of $774 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, in cost of revenue.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Estimated
Useful Life
(In millions)
(In years)
Property and Equipment:
Land


(A)
Buildings, leasehold improvements, and furniture
 
1,816 
 
1,598 
(B)
Equipment, compute hardware, and software
 
5,200 
 
4,303 
3-7
Construction in process

(C)
Total property and equipment, gross
 
7,423 
 
6,501 
 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
(3,509) 
(2,694) 
Total property and equipment, net
3,914 
3,807 
 
(A)
Land is a non-depreciable asset.
(B)
The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Leasehold improvements and finance leases are amortized based on the lesser of 
either the asset’s estimated useful life or the expected remaining lease term.
(C)
Construction in process represents assets that are not available for their intended use as of the balance sheet date.
Depreciation expense for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 was $894 million, $844 million, and $611 million, respectively.
Accumulated amortization of leasehold improvements and finance leases was $400 million and $327 million as of 
January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, respectively. 
Property, equipment and intangible assets acquired by assuming related liabilities during fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 
2022 were $170 million, $374 million, and $258 million, respectively. 
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Other assets:
(In millions)
Prepaid supply and capacity agreements (1)
2,458 
2,989 
Investments in non-affiliated entities
 
1,546 

Prepaid royalties

Other

Total other assets
4,500 
3,820 
(1)
As of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, there was an additional $2.5 billion and $458 million of short-term prepaid supply and capacity 
agreements included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
(In millions)
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities:
Customer program accruals
2,081 
1,196 
Excess inventory purchase obligations (1)
 
1,655 

Deferred revenue (2)

Accrued payroll and related expenses

Product warranty and return provisions

Taxes payable

Operating leases

Unsettled share repurchases

Licenses and royalties

Other

Total accrued and other current liabilities
6,682 
4,120 
(1)
In fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we recorded an expense of approximately $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, in cost of revenue for inventory 
purchase obligations in excess of our current demand projections, supplier charges and for penalties related to cancellations and underutilization.
(2)
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to support for hardware and software, license and development 
arrangements, and cloud services. $233 million and $35 million of the balance in fiscal 2024 and 2023 respectively, related to customer advances.
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
(In millions)
Other Long-Term Liabilities:
Income tax payable (1)
1,361 
1,204 
Deferred income tax

Deferred revenue (2)

Licenses payable

Other

Total other long-term liabilities
2,541 
1,913 
(1)
Income tax payable is comprised of the long-term portion of the one-time transition tax payable, unrecognized tax benefits, and related interest and 
penalties.
(2)
Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to support for hardware and software.
Deferred Revenue
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during fiscal years 2024 and 2023.
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period


Deferred revenue additions during the period
 
2,038 

Revenue recognized during the period
 
(1,273) 
(760) 
Balance at end of period
1,337 

Revenue recognized during fiscal year 2024 that was included in deferred revenue as of January 29, 2023 was 
$338 million. Revenue recognized during fiscal year 2023 that was included in deferred revenue as of January 30, 2022 
was $282 million.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the contracted license and development arrangements 
and support for hardware and software. This includes deferred revenue currently recorded and amounts that will be 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

invoiced in future periods. Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes deferred revenue and 
amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods, was $1.1 billion as of January 28, 2024. We 
expect to recognize approximately 40% of this revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. This 
excludes revenue related to performance obligations for contracts with a length of one year or less.
Note 11 - Derivative Financial Instruments
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements 
on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains 
or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating 
expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. 
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on 
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These forward contracts 
were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in 
other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary 
assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
The table below presents the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding:
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
(In millions)
Designated as cash flow hedges
1,168 
1,128 
Non-designated hedges


The unrealized gains and losses or fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts was not significant as of 
January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023.
As of January 28, 2024, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within 18 months. The expected 
realized gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income or loss related to foreign currency 
forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.
During fiscal years 2024 and 2023, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting 
treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be 
highly effective.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 12 - Debt
Long-Term Debt
The carrying value of our outstanding notes, the calendar year of maturity, and the associated interest rates were as 
follows:
 
 
Expected
Remaining Term 
(years)
Effective
Interest 
Rate
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
 
 
(In millions)
0.309% Notes Due 2023 (1)
0.41%
— $ 
1,250 
0.584% Notes Due 2024
0.4
0.66%
 
1,250 
1,250 
3.20% Notes Due 2026
2.6
3.31%
 
1,000 
1,000 
1.55% Notes Due 2028
4.4
1.64%
 
1,250 
1,250 
2.85% Notes Due 2030
6.2
2.93%
 
1,500 
1,500 
2.00% Notes Due 2031
7.4
2.09%
 
1,250 
1,250 
3.50% Notes Due 2040
16.2
3.54%
 
1,000 
1,000 
3.50% Notes Due 2050
26.2
3.54%
 
2,000 
2,000 
3.70% Notes Due 2060
36.2
3.73%

Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs
 
 
 
(41) 
(47) 
Net carrying amount
 
 
 
9,709 
10,953 
Less short-term portion
 
(1,250) 
(1,250) 
Total long-term portion
8,459 $ 
9,703 
(1) In fiscal year 2024, we repaid the 0.309% Notes Due 2023.
All our notes are unsecured senior obligations. All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior 
to the notes. Our notes pay interest semi-annually. We may redeem each of our notes prior to maturity, subject to a 
make-whole premium as defined in the applicable form of note.
As of January 28, 2024, we were in compliance with the required covenants, which are non-financial in nature, under the 
outstanding notes.
Commercial Paper
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of January 28, 2024, we 
had no commercial paper outstanding.
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies
Purchase Obligations
Our purchase obligations reflect our commitments to purchase components used to manufacture our products, including 
long-term supply and capacity agreements, certain software and technology licenses, other goods and services and longlived assets.
As of January 28, 2024, we had outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply and capacity obligations totaling 
$16.1 billion. We enter into agreements with contract manufacturers that allow them to procure inventory based upon 
criteria as defined by us, and in certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust 
our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, but these changes may result in the 
payment of costs incurred through the date of cancellation. Other non-inventory purchase obligations were $4.6 billion, 
which includes $3.5 billion of multi-year cloud service agreements, primarily to support our research and development 
efforts.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Total future purchase commitments as of January 28, 2024 are as follows:
Commitments
 
(In millions)
Fiscal Year:

17,316 

1,143 

1,060 

2029 and thereafter

Total
20,707 
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities
The estimated amount of product warranty liabilities was $306 million and $82 million as of January 28, 2024 and 
January 29, 2023, respectively. The estimated product returns and estimated product warranty activity consisted of the 
following:
Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period



Additions

Utilization
 
(54) 
(109) 
(16) 
Balance at end of period



In fiscal years 2024 and 2023, the additions in product warranty liabilities primarily related to Compute & Networking 
segment.
We have provided indemnities for matters such as tax, product, and employee liabilities. We have included intellectual 
property indemnification provisions in our technology-related agreements with third parties. Maximum potential future 
payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability. We have not 
recorded any liability in our Consolidated Financial Statements for such indemnifications.
Litigation
Securities Class Action and Derivative Lawsuits 
The plaintiffs in the putative securities class action lawsuit, captioned 4:18-cv-07669-HSG, initially filed on December 21, 
2018 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, and titled In Re NVIDIA Corporation 
Securities Litigation, filed an amended complaint on May 13, 2020. The amended complaint asserted that NVIDIA and 
certain NVIDIA executives violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange 
Act, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making materially false or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact 
of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand between May 10, 2017 and November 14, 2018. Plaintiffs also alleged that the 
NVIDIA executives who they named as defendants violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Plaintiffs sought class 
certification, an award of unspecified compensatory damages, an award of reasonable costs and expenses, including 
attorneys’ fees and expert fees, and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper. On March 2, 2021, the district 
court granted NVIDIA’s motion to dismiss the complaint without leave to amend, entered judgment in favor of NVIDIA and 
closed the case. On March 30, 2021, plaintiffs filed an appeal from judgment in the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Ninth Circuit, case number 21-15604. On August 25, 2023, a majority of a three-judge Ninth Circuit panel affirmed in part 
and reversed in part the district court’s dismissal of the case, with a third judge dissenting on the basis that the district 
court did not err in dismissing the case. On November 15, 2023, the Ninth Circuit denied NVIDIA’s petition for rehearing 
en banc of the Ninth Circuit panel’s majority decision to reverse in part the dismissal of the case, which NVIDIA had filed 
on October 10, 2023. On November 21, 2023, NVIDIA filed a motion with the Ninth Circuit for a stay of the mandate 
pending NVIDIA’s petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court of the United States and the Supreme Court’s 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

resolution of the matter. On December 5, 2023, the Ninth Circuit granted NVIDIA’s motion to stay the mandate. NVIDIA’s 
deadline to file a petition for a writ of certiorari is March 4, 2024.
The putative derivative lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, 
captioned 4:19-cv-00341-HSG, initially filed January 18, 2019 and titled In re NVIDIA Corporation Consolidated Derivative 
Litigation, was stayed pending resolution of the plaintiffs’ appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation 
action. On February 22, 2022, the court administratively closed the case, but stated that it would reopen the case once 
the appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation action is resolved. Following the Ninth Circuit’s denial of 
NVIDIA’s petition for rehearing on November 15, 2023, the parties are conferring regarding the next steps in this 
derivative matter. The lawsuit asserts claims, purportedly on behalf of us, against certain officers and directors of the 
Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, waste of corporate assets, and violations of Sections 14(a), 
10(b), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to 
channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified 
damages and other relief, including reforms and improvements to NVIDIA’s corporate governance and internal 
procedures.
The putative derivative actions initially filed September 24, 2019 and pending in the United States District Court for the 
District of Delaware, Lipchitz v. Huang, et al. (Case No. 1:19-cv-01795-UNA) and Nelson v. Huang, et. al. (Case No. 1:19cv-01798- UNA), remain stayed pending resolution of the plaintiffs’ appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities 
Litigation action. Following the Ninth Circuit’s denial of NVIDIA’s petition for rehearing on November 15, 2023, the parties 
are conferring regarding the next steps in these derivative matters. The lawsuits assert claims, purportedly on behalf of 
us, against certain officers and directors of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, insider trading, 
misappropriation of information, corporate waste and violations of Sections 14(a), 10(b), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act 
based on the dissemination of allegedly false, and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of 
cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief, including disgorgement 
of profits from the sale of NVIDIA stock and unspecified corporate governance measures.
Another putative derivative action was filed on October 30, 2023 in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, 
captioned Horanic v. Huang, et al. (Case No. 2023-1096-KSJM). This lawsuit asserts claims, purportedly on behalf of us, 
against certain officers and directors of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty and insider trading based on the 
dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of 
cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief, including disgorgement 
of profits from the sale of NVIDIA stock and reform of unspecified corporate governance measures. This derivative 
matter is stayed pending the final resolution of In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation action.
Accounting for Loss Contingencies 
As of January 28, 2024, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings 
described above based on our belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, except as specifically 
described above, any possible loss or range of loss in these matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are 
engaged in legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of business and, while there can be no 
assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse 
effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 14 - Income Taxes
The income tax expense (benefit) applicable to income before income taxes consists of the following:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions)
Current income taxes:
 
 
 
Federal
5,710 
1,703 

State

Foreign

Total current
 
6,547 
 
1,977 

Deferred income taxes:
 
 
 
Federal
 
(2,499) 
(2,165) 
(420) 
State
 
(206) 
 
Foreign

Total deferred
 
(2,489) 
(2,164) 
(406) 
Income tax expense (benefit)
4,058 
(187) $ 

Income before income tax consists of the following:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions)
U.S.
29,495 
3,477 
8,446 
Foreign
 
4,323 

1,495 
Income before income tax
33,818 
4,181 
9,941 
The income tax expense (benefit) differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% to 
income before income taxes as follows:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions, except percentages)
Tax expense computed at federal statutory rate
7,102 
 21.0 % $ 

 21.0 % $ 
2,088 
 21.0 %
Expense (benefit) resulting from:
State income taxes, net of federal tax effect

 0.4 % 

 1.2 % 

 0.4 %
Foreign-derived intangible income
 
(1,408) 
 (4.2) % 
(739) 
 (17.7) % 
(520) 
 (5.2) %
Stock-based compensation
 
(741) 
 (2.2) % 
(309) 
 (7.4) % 
(337) 
 (3.4) %
Foreign tax rate differential
 
(467) 
 (1.4) % 
(83) 
 (2.0) % 
(497) 
 (5.0) %
U.S. federal research and development tax credit
 
(431) 
 (1.3) % 
(278) 
 (6.6) % 
(289) 
 (2.9) %
Acquisition termination cost
 
 — % 

 6.2 % 
 — %
IP domestication
 
 — % 
 — % 
(244) 
 (2.5) %
Other
 
(117) 
 (0.3) % 

 0.8 % 
(54) 
 (0.5) %
Income tax expense (benefit)
4,058 
 12.0 % $ 
(187) 
 (4.5) % $ 

 1.9 %

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

The tax effect of temporary differences that gives rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
presented below:
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
 
(In millions)
Deferred tax assets:
 
Capitalized research and development expenditure
3,376 
1,859 
GILTI deferred tax assets
 
1,576 

Accruals and reserves, not currently deductible for tax purposes
 
1,121 

Research and other tax credit carryforwards

Net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards

Operating lease liabilities

Stock-based compensation

Property, equipment and intangible assets

Other deferred tax assets

Gross deferred tax assets
 
8,000 
 
5,154 
Less valuation allowance
 
(1,552) 
(1,484) 
Total deferred tax assets
 
6,448 
 
3,670 
Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries
 
(502) 
(228) 
Operating lease assets
 
(255) 
(179) 
Acquired intangibles
 
(74) 
(115) 
Gross deferred tax liabilities
 
(831) 
(522) 
Net deferred tax asset (1)
5,617 
3,148 
(1) Net deferred tax asset includes long-term deferred tax assets of $6.1 billion and $3.4 billion and long-term deferred tax liabilities of 
$462 million and $247 million for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. Long-term deferred tax liabilities are included in other longterm liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of January 28, 2024, we intend to indefinitely reinvest approximately $1.1 billion and $250 million of cumulative 
undistributed earnings held by certain subsidiaries in Israel and the United Kingdom, respectively. We have not provided 
the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to these investments as the 
determination of such amount is not practicable.
As of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, we had a valuation allowance of $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, 
related to capital loss carryforwards, and certain state and other deferred tax assets that management determined are 
not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the 
extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets 
as income tax benefits during the period.
As of January 28, 2024, we had U.S. federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $315 million, 
$342 million and $361 million, respectively. The federal and state carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal years 2026 
and 2025, respectively. The foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $361 million may be carried forward indefinitely. 
As of January 28, 2024, we had federal research tax credit carryforwards of $31 million, before the impact of uncertain 
tax positions, that will begin to expire in fiscal year 2025. We have state research tax credit carryforwards of $1.6 billion, 
before the impact of uncertain tax positions. $1.5 billion is attributable to the State of California and may be carried over 
indefinitely and $75 million is attributable to various other states and will begin to expire in fiscal year 2025. As of January 
28, 2024, we had federal capital loss carryforwards of $1.4 billion that will begin to expire in fiscal year 2025.
Our tax attributes remain subject to audit and may be adjusted for changes or modification in tax laws, other 
authoritative interpretations thereof, or other facts and circumstances. Utilization of tax attributes may also be subject 
to limitations due to ownership changes and other limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state 
and foreign tax provisions. If any such limitations apply, the tax attributes may expire or be denied before utilization.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

A reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
 
(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period
1,238 
1,013 

Increases in tax positions for current year

Increases in tax positions for prior years

Decreases in tax positions for prior years
 
(148) 
(15) 
(4) 
Settlements
 
(104) 
(9) 
(8) 
Lapse in statute of limitations
 
(19) 
(20) 
(11) 
Balance at end of period
1,670 
1,238 
1,013 
Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 28, 2024 are $1.0 billion of tax benefits that would 
affect our effective tax rate if recognized.
We classify an unrecognized tax benefit as a current liability, or amount refundable, to the extent that we anticipate 
payment or receipt of cash for income taxes within one year. The amount is classified as a long-term liability, or reduction 
of long-term amount refundable, if we anticipate payment or receipt of cash for income taxes during a period beyond a 
year.
We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. We 
recognized net interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax expense line of our 
consolidated statements of income of $42 million, $33 million, and $14 million during fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively. As of January 28, 2024 and January 29, 2023, we have accrued $140 million and $95 million, respectively, for 
the payment of interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is not included as a component of our 
gross unrecognized tax benefits.
While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be 
greater or less than our accrued position. Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax-related matters to 
be recorded in the future may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise 
resolved. As of January 28, 2024, we have not identified any positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total 
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
We are subject to taxation by taxing authorities both in the United States and other countries. As of January 28, 2024, 
the significant tax jurisdictions that may be subject to examination include the United States for fiscal years after 2020, 
as well as China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom for fiscal years 2005 through 2023. 
As of January 28, 2024, the significant tax jurisdictions for which we are currently under examination include Germany, 
India, Israel, and Taiwan for fiscal years 2005 through 2023.
Note 15 - Shareholders’ Equity
Capital Return Program
In August 2023, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our share repurchase program of an additional $25.0 
billion, without expiration. During fiscal year 2024, we repurchased 21 million shares of our common stock for $9.7 billion. 
As of January 28, 2024, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our 
common stock up to $22.5 billion. From January 29, 2024 through February 16, 2024, we repurchased 2.8 million shares 
for $1.9 billion pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. Our share repurchase program aims to offset dilution from shares 
issued to employees. We may pursue additional share repurchases as we weigh market factors and other investment 
opportunities.
During fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, we paid $395 million, $398 million, and $399 million in cash dividends to our 
shareholders, respectively. Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are 
subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends 
thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders.
In fiscal year 2022, we retired our existing 349 million treasury shares. These shares assumed the status of authorized 
and unissued shares upon retirement. The excess of repurchase price over par value was allocated between additional 
paid-in capital and retained earnings, resulting in a reduction in additional paid-in capital by $20 million and retained 
earnings by $12.0 billion. Any future repurchased shares will assume the status of authorized and unissued shares.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Note 16 - Employee Retirement Plans
We provide tax-qualified defined contribution plans to eligible employees in the U.S. and certain other countries. Our 
contribution expense for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 was $255 million, $227 million, and $168 million, respectively.
Note 17 - Segment Information 
Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial 
information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making decisions and assessing financial 
performance.
The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated computing platform; networking; automotive 
artificial intelligence, or AI, Cockpit, autonomous driving development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; 
electric vehicle computing platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other 
software; and DGX Cloud.
The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and 
related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; 
virtual GPU software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and 
Omniverse Enterprise software for building and operating 3D internet applications.
Operating results by segment include costs or expenses that are directly attributable to each segment, and costs or 
expenses that are leveraged across our unified architecture and therefore allocated between our two segments.
The “All Other” category includes the expenses that our CODM does not assign to either Compute & Networking or 
Graphics for purposes of making operating decisions or assessing financial performance. The expenses include stockbased compensation expense, corporate infrastructure and support costs, acquisition-related and other costs, 
intellectual property related, or IP-related costs, acquisition termination cost, and other non-recurring charges and 
benefits that our CODM deems to be enterprise in nature.
Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a reportable segment basis. Depreciation and 
amortization expense directly attributable to each reportable segment is included in operating results for each segment. 
However, our CODM does not evaluate depreciation and amortization expense by operating segment and, therefore, it is 
not separately presented. There is no intersegment revenue. The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same 
as for our consolidated financial statements. The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All 
Other” category.
 
Compute & 
Networking
Graphics
All Other
Consolidated
(In millions)
Year Ended Jan 28, 2024:
 
 
 
Revenue
47,405 $ 
13,517 
60,922 
Operating income (loss)
32,016 $ 
5,846 
(4,890) $ 
32,972 
Year Ended Jan 29, 2023:
 
 
 
Revenue
15,068 $ 
11,906 
26,974 
Operating income (loss)
5,083 $ 
4,552 
(5,411) $ 
4,224 
Year Ended Jan 30, 2022:
 
 
 
Revenue
11,046 $ 
15,868 
26,914 
Operating income (loss)
4,598 $ 
8,492 
(3,049) $ 
10,041 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Year Ended
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
(In millions)
Reconciling items included in "All Other" category:
Stock-based compensation expense
(3,549) $ 
(2,710) $ 
(2,004) 
Unallocated cost of revenue and operating expenses
 
(728) 
(595) 
(399) 
Acquisition-related and other costs
 
(583) 
(674) 
(636) 
IP-related and legal settlement costs
 
(40) 
(23) 
(10) 
Restructuring costs and other
 
 
(54) 
Acquisition termination cost
 
 
(1,353) 
Other

(2) 
Total
(4,890) $ 
(5,411) $ 
(3,049) 
Revenue by geographic areas is designated based upon the billing location of the customer. End customer location may 
be different than our customer’s billing location. Revenue by geographic areas was as follows: 
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
Revenue:
(In millions)
United States
26,966 
8,292 
4,349 
Taiwan
 
13,405 
 
6,986 
 
8,544 
China (including Hong Kong)
 
10,306 
 
5,785 
 
7,111 
Other countries
 
10,245 
 
5,911 
 
6,910 
Total revenue
60,922 
26,974 
26,914 
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 56%, 69%, and 84% of total revenue for 
fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. The increase in revenue to the United States for fiscal year 2024 was 
primarily due to higher U.S.-based Compute & Networking segment demand.
Sales to one customer represented 13% of total revenue for fiscal year 2024, which was attributable to the Compute & 
Networking segment. No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022.
The following table summarizes information pertaining to our revenue by each of the specialized markets we serve:
 
Year Ended
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Jan 30, 2022
Revenue:
(In millions)
Data Center
47,525 
15,005 
10,613 
Gaming
 
10,447 
 
9,067 
 
12,462 
Professional Visualization
 
1,553 
 
1,544 
 
2,111 
Automotive
 
1,091 

OEM and Other

1,162 
Total revenue
60,922 
26,974 
26,914 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

The following table presents summarized information for long-lived assets by country. Long-lived assets consist of 
property and equipment and exclude other assets, operating lease assets, goodwill, and intangible assets.
 
Jan 28, 2024
Jan 29, 2023
Long-lived assets:
(In millions)
United States
2,595 
2,587 
Taiwan

Israel

Other countries

Total long-lived assets
3,914 
3,807 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Continued)

Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
Description
Balance at
Beginning of 
Period
Additions
 
Deductions
 
Balance at
End of Period
 
(In millions)
Fiscal year 2024
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

— (1) $ 
— (1) $ 

Sales return allowance

213 (2) $ 
(130) (4) $ 

Deferred tax valuation allowance
1,484 
162 (3) $ 
(94) (3) $ 
1,552 
Fiscal year 2023
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

— (1) $ 
— (1) $ 

Sales return allowance

104 (2) $ 
(91) (4) $ 

Deferred tax valuation allowance

577 (3) $ 
1,484 
Fiscal year 2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

— (1) $ 
— (1) $ 

Sales return allowance

19 (2) $ 
(23) (4) $ 

Deferred tax valuation allowance

179 (3) $ 

(1)
Additions represent either expense or acquired balances and deductions represent write-offs.
(2)
Additions represent estimated product returns charged as a reduction to revenue or an acquired balance.
(3)
Additional valuation allowance on deferred tax assets not likely to be realized. Additions represent additional valuation allowance on capital loss 
carryforwards, and certain state and other deferred tax assets. Deductions represent the release of valuation allowance on certain state deferred tax 
assets. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional 
information. 
(4)
Represents sales returns.

Exhibit Index
Incorporated by 
Reference
Exhibit 
No.
Exhibit Description
Schedule/
Form
Exhibit
Filing Date
2.1
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 10, 2019, by 
and among NVIDIA Corporation, NVIDIA International 
Holdings Inc., Mellanox Technologies Ltd. and Teal Barvaz 
Ltd.
8-K
2.1
3/11/2019
2.2^
Share Purchase Agreement, dated September 13, 2020, by 
and among NVIDIA, NVIDIA Holdings, Arm, SoftBank, and 
Vision Fund
8-K
2.1
9/14/2020
3.1
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
10-K
3.1
3/18/2022
3.2
Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of 

8-K
3.1
6/6/2022
3.3
Bylaws of NVIDIA Corporation, Amended and Restated as of 
March 2, 2023
8-K
3.1
3/8/2023
4.1
Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3
4.2
Specimen Stock Certificate
S-1/A
4.2
4/24/1998
4.3
Indenture, dated as of September 16, 2016, by and between 
the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as 
successor to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as 
Trustee
8-K
4.1
9/16/2016
4.4
Officers’ Certificate, dated as of September 16, 2016
8-K
4.2
9/16/2016
4.5
Form of 2026 Note
8-K
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
9/16/2016
4.6
Description of Securities
10-K
4.6
2/24/2023
4.7
Officers’ Certificate, dated as of March 31, 2020
8-K
4.2
3/31/2020
4.8
Form of 2030 Note
8-K
Annex A-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.9
Form of 2040 Note
8-K
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.10
Form of 2050 Note
8-K
Annex C-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.11
Form of 2060 Note
8-K
Annex D-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.12
Officers' Certificate, dated as of June 16, 2021
8-K
4.2
6/16/2021
4.13
Form of 2023 Note
8-K
Annex A-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.14
Form of 2024 Note
8-K
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.15
Form of 2028 Note
8-K
Annex C-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.16
Form of 2031 Note
8-K
Annex D-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
10.1
Form of Indemnity Agreement between NVIDIA Corporation 
and each of its directors and officers
8-K
10.1
3/7/2006
10.2+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
10-K
10.2
2/24/2023
10.3+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - NonEmployee Director Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant 
Notice and Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2016)
10-K
10.26
3/12/2015
10.4+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - NonEmployee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2016)
10-K
10.27
3/12/2015
10.5+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2019)
8-K
10.1
3/11/2019
10.6+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted 
Stock Unit Agreement (2020)
10-Q
10.2
5/21/2020

10.7+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted 
Stock Unit Agreement (2021)
10-Q
10.2
5/26/2021
10.8+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted 
Stock Unit Agreement (2022)
10-K
10.16
3/18/2022
10.9+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted 
Stock Unit Agreement (2023)
10-K
10.14
2/24/2023
10.10+
Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
10-Q
10.2
8/20/2021
10.11+
Variable Compensation Plan - Fiscal Year 2023 
8-K
10.1
3/9/2022
10.12+
Variable Compensation Plan - Fiscal Year 2024
8-K
10.1
3/8/2023
10.13
Form of Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between 

8-K
10.1
12/15/2017
21.1*
Subsidiaries of Registrant
23.1*
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
24.1*
Power of Attorney (included in signature page)
31.1*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

31.2*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

32.1#*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

32.2#*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

97.1+*
Compensation Recovery Policy, as amended and restated November 30, 2023
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page interactive data file does not appear in the Interactive 
Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document
* Filed herewith.
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
# In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management's Reports on Internal 
Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 
hereto are deemed to accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed “filed” for purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such 
certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that 
the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
^ Certain exhibits and schedules have been omitted in accordance with Regulation S-K Item 601(a)(5). 
Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available to any shareholder upon written request to:
Investor Relations: NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
Not Applicable.

Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 21, 2024.

By:
/s/ Jen-Hsun Huang 
 
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
President and Chief Executive Officer
Power of Attorney
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Jen-Hsun Huang and Colette M. Kress, and each or any one of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with 
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign 
any and all amendments to this report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection 
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-facts and agents, and each of 
them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in 
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and 
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitutes or substitutes, may 
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature
Title
Date
/s/ JEN-HSUN HUANG 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
February 21, 2024
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
/s/ COLETTE M. KRESS 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
February 21, 2024
Colette M. Kress
 
/s/ DONALD ROBERTSON
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
February 21, 2024
Donald Robertson
/s/ ROBERT BURGESS
Director
February 21, 2024
Robert Burgess
/s/ TENCH COXE 
Director
February 21, 2024
Tench Coxe 
 
/s/ JOHN O. DABIRI
Director
February 21, 2024
John O. Dabiri
 
/s/ PERSIS DRELL
Director
February 21, 2024
Persis Drell
/s/ DAWN HUDSON
Director
February 21, 2024
Dawn Hudson
/s/ HARVEY C. JONES 
Director
February 21, 2024
Harvey C. Jones
 
/s/ MELISSA B. LORA
Director
February 21, 2024
Melissa B. Lora
/s/ MICHAEL MCCAFFERY
Director
February 21, 2024
Michael McCaffery
/s/ STEPHEN C. NEAL
Director
February 21, 2024
Stephen C. Neal
/s/ MARK L. PERRY 
Director
February 21, 2024
Mark L. Perry 
 
/s/ A. BROOKE SEAWELL
Director
February 21, 2024
A. Brooke Seawell 
/s/ AARTI SHAH
Director
February 21, 2024
Aarti Shah
/s/ MARK STEVENS
Director
February 21, 2024
Mark Stevens 

Corporate Information
Board Of Directors
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer 

Robert K. Burgess 
Independent Consultant
Tench Coxe 
Former Managing Director 
Sutter Hill Ventures
John O. Dabiri 
Centennial Professor of Aeronautics 
and Mechanical Engineering 
California Institute of Technology
Persis S. Drell 
Professor of Materials Science 
and Engineering and Physics, 
and Former Provost 
Stanford University 
Dawn Hudson 
Former Chief Marketing Officer 
National Football League
Harvey C. Jones 
Managing Partner 
Square Wave Ventures
Melissa B. Lora 
Former President 
Taco Bell International
Michael G. McCaffery 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Makena Capital Management
Stephen C. Neal (Lead Director) 
Chairman Emeritus and Senior Counsel 
Cooley LLP
Mark L. Perry 
Independent Consultant and Director
A. Brooke Seawell 
Venture Partner 
New Enterprise Associates
Aarti Shah 
Former Senior Vice President and 
Chief Information and Digital Officer 
Eli Lilly and Company
Mark A. Stevens 
Managing Partner 
S-Cubed Capital
Founders
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer
Chris A. Malachowsky 
Founder and NVIDIA Fellow
Executive Team
Colette M. Kress 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer
Jay Puri 
Executive Vice President 
Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist 
Executive Vice President 
Operations
Timothy S. Teter 
Executive Vice President 
General Counsel and Secretary
Independent Accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
488 Almaden Boulevard, Suite 1800 
San Jose, California 95110
General Legal Counsel
Cooley LLP 
3175 Hanover Street 
Palo Alto, California 94304 
Transfer Agent 
And Registrar
Computershare 
P.O Box 43006 
Providence, Rhode Island 02940 
www.computershare.com/investor
Annual Meeting
June 26, 2024, at 09:00 a.m. PDT
Online at: 
www.virtualshareholder 
meeting.com/NVDA2024
Form 10-K
A copy of NVIDIA’s Form 10-K filed 
with the SEC will be made available 
to all shareholders at no charge.
The Form 10-K also can be accessed 
through the SEC website at 
www.sec.gov, or through NVIDIA’s 
Investor Relations website at 
investor.nvidia.com.
To receive a copy by mail 
please contact: 
 
Investor Relations 

2788 San Tomas Expressway 
Santa Clara, California 95051 
shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com

© 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.