Annual Review
Notice of Annual Meeting 
Proxy Statement 
Form 10-K

“NVIDIA’s Big AI 
Moment Is Here”
— Engadget
NVIDIA invented accelerated computing to 
solve problems that ordinary computers 
can’t. Accelerated computing requires 
full-stack invention, from chips, systems, 
networking, and acceleration libraries, 
all the way to refactoring applications.
The acceleration of deep learning 
ignited the big bang of AI. And, with 
ChatGPT, generative AI has captured 
the world’s imagination. Generative AI is 
a new computing platform like the PC, 
internet, mobile, and cloud. The iPhone 
moment for AI is here. Accelerated 
computing and AI have arrived.

“NVIDIA Puts AI at 
Center of Latest 
GeForce Graphics 
Card Upgrade”
 — Bloomberg
NVIDIA RTX is the new standard. 
Revolutionizing the ways we play and 
create, RTX is the most advanced platform 
for ray tracing and AI technologies. 
Over 400 top games and applications 
use RTX to deliver realistic graphics 
with a massive performance boost.
And for GeForce NOW Ultimate 
members, RTX 4080 SuperPODs 
are here, streaming RTX 4080-class 
performance from the cloud.

NVIDIA AI
NVIDIA Omniverse
NeMo
Picasso
NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD
BioNeMo

“NVIDIA’s Growing 
Momentum in the 
Public Cloud”
 — Forbes
We extended our business model with 
NVIDIA DGX Cloud by partnering with 
Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, 
and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure to 
instantly bring NVIDIA AI to nearly 
every company, from a browser. DGX 
Cloud offers customers the best of 
NVIDIA and the best of the world’s 
leading cloud service providers.
Omniverse is the digital-to-physical 
operating system to realize industrial 
digitalization. We extended Omniverse 
into the cloud through our partnership 
with Microsoft Azure. And NVIDIA AI 
Foundations will offer language, visual, 
and biology model-making services via 
the cloud so every company can tap 
into the potential of generative AI.

“NVIDIA’s Clara 
Ecosystem Is Being 
Used by More Than 
100 Partners”
 — Healthcare IT News
NVIDIA Clara is a healthcare application 
framework for imaging, instruments, 
genomics, and drug discovery. Drug 
discovery is a nearly $2 trillion industry 
with $250 billion dedicated to R&D. The 
industry is now jumping into generative 
AI to discover disease targets, design 
novel molecules and protein-based drugs, 
and predict the behavior of medicines 
in the body. NVIDIA BioNeMo provides 
state-of-the-art generative AI models for 
drug discovery, available in the cloud.

“NVIDIA Builds Out Its 
Omniverse Ecosystem 
to Support the 
Automotive Metaverse”
 — SiliconANGLE
NVIDIA Omniverse is an ideal tool for an 
industrial world seeking to digitalize. 
Omniverse can simulate the best 
possible layouts before the first brick 
is placed. The $3 trillion automotive 
industry is modernizing all its processes 
to take advantage of computing and 
AI. BMW Group uses Omniverse to 
build a whole factory digital twin before 
constructing it physically. MercedesBenz is using NVIDIA DRIVE IX on 
Omniverse to design and simulate its 
integrated cabins and electronics.

“NVIDIA cuLitho 
Computational 
Lithography Massively 
Accelerates Chip 
Design Using GPUs”
 — Forbes
NVIDIA’s acceleration libraries solve 
new challenges and open new markets. 
They connect to applications that 
connect to the world’s industries, 
forming a network of networks. 
NVIDIA cuLitho is a new library that 
supercharges computational lithography, 
an immense computational workload 
in chip design and manufacturing. 
The result of over four years of 
partnership and collaboration with 
TSMC, ASML, and Synopsys, cuLitho 
accelerates computational lithography 
by over 40X and paves the way for the 
industry to go to 2nm and beyond. 

We had a tough 2022. Our business 
was affected by economic headwinds, 
geopolitical tension, and a product 
supply chain that swung from severe 
shortage to excess. NVIDIANs rose to 
tackle each challenge while inventing 
new technologies and capabilities 
that position us at the center of 
the most exciting opportunities 
in the history of computing.
Data center AI and accelerated 
workloads are continuing to skyrocket. 
Developers are shifting to NVIDIA 
accelerated computing as the fourdecade-long exponential scaling of CPUbased general-purpose computing ends. 
ChatGPT, the AI application heard 
around the world, showcased the 
abilities of generative AI and its 
potential to drive industrial productivity 
and advance the world’s most significant 
scientific challenges. Generative AI 
has created a sense of urgency in 
companies everywhere to reimagine 
their products and business models. 
Generative AI is also accelerating 
industrial digitalization. The largest 
industries, from auto manufacturing to 
pharmaceutical, will be reinvented with 
generative AI and become some of the 
most advanced technology industries. 
NVIDIA’s body of work is reshaping 
the future of computing.
Accelerated Computing …
Accelerated computing is not easy—
it requires full-stack optimization 
from chip architecture, systems, and 
acceleration libraries, to refactoring 
the applications. Each application 
domain requires optimized stacks—
from graphics, imaging, and particle or 
fluid dynamics to data processing and 
machine learning. NVIDIA pioneered 
accelerated computing by extending 
the GPU, a 3D graphics accelerator, 
into a parallel computing accelerator.
NVIDIA acceleration libraries build on 
CUDA, and all NVIDIA GPUs are CUDAcompatible. Four million developers 
are working with CUDA, and that 
number is expanding. It took 12 years 
to reach 2 million developers, but 
we’ve doubled that number in the last 
two and a half years. CUDA has been 
downloaded more than 40 million times. 
A wealth of accelerated applications 
attracts end users, which creates a 
large market for cloud service providers 
and computer makers to serve. This in 
turn affords billions in R&D to fuel its 
growth. NVIDIA has established the 
accelerated computing virtuous cycle.
We help developers achieve incredible 
speedups through full-stack invention, 
from the chips and systems to the 
algorithms and applications they 
run. These algorithms are optimized 
and packaged into acceleration 
libraries, where they help millions 
of developers across industries 
solve complex problems. NVIDIA has 
hundreds of acceleration libraries 
that form our core platforms: NVIDIA 
RTX for graphics, NVIDIA HPC for 
scientific computing, NVIDIA AI for 
data science and artificial intelligence, 
NVIDIA DRIVE for autonomous 
vehicles, and NVIDIA Omniverse for 
industrial digitalization applications.
We now offer 300 acceleration libraries 
and 400 AI models, with 100 added or 
updated in the past year alone, including 
cuQuantum for quantum computing, 
cuOpt for combinatorial optimization, 
Dear NVIDIANs 
and Stakeholders,
Revenue
Flat
in Billions
Gross Margin
-8.0 pts
GAAP Results
EPS
-55%
FY22
FY23
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
FY22
FY23
FY22
FY23
54%
56%
58%
64%
62%
66%
$26.91 B
$26.97 B
56.9%
64.9%
$3.85
$1.74

and the new cuLitho, which addresses 
the single largest computation workload 
in chip design and manufacturing: 
computational lithography. The product 
of close collaborations for over four 
years with TSMC, ASML, and Synopsys, 
cuLitho can reduce mask creation time 
from two weeks to overnight and enable 
500 NVIDIA DGX H100 systems to 
achieve the same work as 40,000 CPU 
systems. That’s 1/8 of the space needed 
and 1/9 of the power to achieve current 
results with NVIDIA systems. Most 
importantly, it provides the chip industry 
a platform for the next leap into the next 
chip design and manufacturing miracle. 
It operates near the limits of physics: 
high-numerical aperture extreme 
ultraviolet lithography. This process 
will require radical algorithms such as 
inverse lithography and AI approaches 
for continued scaling to 2nm and beyond.
… Is Sustainable Computing
The exponential growth trend in CPU 
computing performance coupled 
with only moderate power and cost 
increases is no more. Data centers are 
already about 1-2% of global electricity 
consumption and that consumption 
is expected to continue to grow. This 
continued growth is not sustainable 
for operating budgets and our planet.
For computing to be sustainable, data 
centers must accelerate every workload 
possible. NVIDIA pioneered accelerated 
computing and has built a large 
installed base and a rich ecosystem 
of developers and applications 
available everywhere. Accelerated 
computing is sustainable computing, 
bending the energy consumption 
trendline away from runaway growth 
and toward a sustainable future.
The iPhone Moment For AI
ChatGPT has taken the world by 
storm. Hundreds of millions of people 
worldwide have been captivated 
by its abilities. Companies in new 
and established industries are 
racing to explore its potential. 
The foundation of ChatGPT is a large 
language model (LLM). According 
to ChatGPT itself, an LLM is:
“A large language model refers to a type 
of artificial intelligence (AI) model trained 
on a vast amount of text data to generate 
human-like text responses. Language 
models understand and generate human 
language, and they can perform a wide 
range of tasks, such as answering 
questions, summarizing text, translating 
languages, and generating text content.
“LLMs, such as GPT-3 (Generative Pretrained Transformer 3), are known for 
their high capacity to learn from large 
datasets and generate coherent and 
contextually relevant text. These models 
use deep neural networks with multiple 
layers to capture complex patterns 
and representations in language data. 
LLMs can understand the nuances of 
language, including grammar, syntax, 
context, and meaning, and can generate 
text that is often difficult to distinguish 
from text written by humans.
“LLMs have many potential applications 
in various domains, including 
natural language processing (NLP), 
conversational AI, content generation, 
language translation, and more.”
LLMs can learn the representation of 
information that has structure from 
human language, music, images, and 
even proteins and chemicals. The 
potential of generative AI models to 
amplify human productivity is incredible. 
Impacts will be felt in industries ranging 
from healthcare and financial services, 
to design, art, and entertainment. 
LLMs are trained with NVIDIA DGX 
AI supercomputers. An LLM neural 
network model with tens of billions of 
artificial neurons learns by processing 
trillions of bytes of data. This requires 

thousands of GPUs connected by highspeed networking running in unison. 
A New Computing 
Era Has Arrived
Throughout history, we have witnessed 
the emergence of various computing 
eras driven by the convergence 
of multiple technologies.
From the advent of personal 
computers, to the internet, cloud, 
and mobile computing, and now 
artificial intelligence, each wave has 
expanded the realm of computing. 
Each has narrowed the technology 
divide, putting computers, the 
instrument of knowledge, into 
the hands of more people.
The PC took over 20 years from the 
launch of the IBM PC to reach a billion 
people and transform education and 
businesses in every industry. Only 
five years after the iPhone launch, 
smartphones, with simple-to-use touch 
interfaces and powerful computing in 
the cloud, put incredible applications 
in the hands of a billion people. 
AI is a new wave of computing that 
requires no programming skills and is 
prompted in plain human language to 
perform incredible, seemingly intelligent 
tasks. The remarkable ease of use let 
ChatGPT reach over 100 million users 
in just a few months, making it the 
fastest-growing application in history.
So, what’s next?
Like autonomous vehicles that require 
rigorous functional and active safety 
technologies, generative AI systems 
must be supported by technologies 
for safety and trustworthiness. 
Researchers and industry are creating 
technologies that align models to values 
and principles, augment models with 
factual knowledge bases, and provide 
guardrails to limit models within the 
operating domains of use. Although 
safety and trustworthiness remain 
vast domains for ongoing research, 
well-regarded tools, methods, and 
practices are already proliferating.
And while general-purpose AI continues 
to advance, companies can build custom 
LLMs specialized for their industry. 
Learning from their proprietary data, 
companies in healthcare, financial 
services, retail, manufacturing, and 
more will train generative AI models to 
automate their companies and tasks 
that are valuable to their customers. 
NVIDIA DGX and AI 
Cloud Within The 
World’s Best Clouds
Applying generative AI to each 
industry requires domain expertise 
and training data, LLMs and safety 
systems, AI supercomputing 
infrastructure, and expertise.
NVIDIA is building a new AI service 
that helps companies build their own 
LLM AI factories that produce and 
refine their company’s intelligence.
The service consists of the 
NVIDIA AI Foundations custom 
LLM model-making system, the 
NVIDIA DGX AI supercomputing 
infrastructure, NVIDIA AI inference 
platforms, and experts to assist.
These services and platforms can be 
available in a company’s on-premises 
data centers or through the world’s 
leading cloud service providers.
NVIDIA AI Foundations is a cloud 
service—a foundry—for building custom 
language models and generative 
AI. It is comprised of language, 
visual, and biology model-making 
services. Customers can use NVIDIA 
AI Foundations to create, refine, and 
operate custom LLMs and generative 
AI trained with their proprietary data 
and for their domain-specific tasks.
The pharmaceutical industry is a top 
focus of NVIDIA AI Foundations. It can 
cost $2 billion and take 10-15 years of 
research to bring a new drug to market. 
Using our service and working with our 
researchers, customers can use our 
pretrained and optimized biology LLMs 
to accelerate early-stage drug discovery 
workflows from months to weeks. 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Insilico, Evozyne, 
Innophore, and Alchemab Therapeutics 
are all early-access users. Generative 
AI will transform drug discovery.

GeForce Revolutionized AI. 
AI Revolutionizes GeForce
GeForce for gaming is NVIDIA’s 
technology driving force. The technology 
demand to create realistic and 
interactive virtual worlds is insatiable. 
And the gaming market continues 
to expand. From a zero-billion-dollar 
market 30 years ago, there are over 
a billion PC gamers today. Someday, 
nearly everyone will be a gamer. And 
games will be incredibly realistic. 
The technologies necessary are ray 
tracing, physics simulations, digital 
humans, and generative AI—the 
technologies that NVIDIA GPUs enable.
The future of gaming started 12 years 
ago when AI researchers discovered the 
math processing prowess of NVIDIA 
GeForce gaming GPUs with CUDAaccelerated computing to realize the 
effectiveness of deep learning. This 
ignited the big bang of modern AI.
Coming full circle, AI is now 
revolutionizing the GPU, computer 
graphics, and gaming technologies. 
We introduced programmable shaders 
a quarter century ago, revolutionizing 
3D graphics. Five years ago, we 
launched NVIDIA RTX, opening a new 
frontier. This year, we introduced the 
next breakthrough in AI-powered 
graphics: DLSS 3. It is one of our 
greatest neural rendering inventions. 
DLSS 3 generates entirely new frames 
rather than just pixels, boosting 
performance over 4X vs. rendering.
Imagine an AI model that runs on 
GeForce but learns to create beautiful 
images on a DGX AI supercomputer. 
DLSS 3 learned to generate seven out 
of every eight pixels in a scene. The 
speedup, image quality improvement, 
and energy saved are incredible. 
Every NVIDIA RTX gamer can enjoy 
the automated pixel-prediction 
capability of a generative AI that 
NVIDIA DGX AI supercomputers 
trained—learn once, save energy for 
hundreds of millions of gamers.
DLSS 3 is a big deal in many ways. 
Neural rendering is an entirely new 
way of doing computer graphics and 
is the technology for the next leap 
in virtual world generation. But it is 
also direct evidence that accelerated 
computing and AI are the ways to 
sustainable computing for the planet.
Like NVIDIA DGX and NVIDIA AI, NVIDIA 
RTX has leaped into the cloud. This year, 
we unveiled the GeForce NOW Ultimate 
membership tier, delivering GeForce 
RTX 4080-class performance with 
NVIDIA Reflex, ray tracing, and DLSS 
3. With 25 million members worldwide 
in 100+ countries, GeForce NOW serves 
more games to more countries than 
any other gaming service. NVIDIA 
and Microsoft signed a 10-year deal 
to bring the Xbox PC game library to 
GeForce NOW. Members will be able 
to stream top game franchises such 
as Halo, Minecraft, Elder Scrolls, and 
other titles from Bethesda, Mojang 
Studios, and Activision, pending the 
closure of Microsoft’s acquisition.
Omniverse: Connecting Our 
Physical And Digital Worlds
The largest and most impactful 
industries make and operate physical 
things—from electronic devices, cars, 
buildings, factories, warehouses to 
luxury goods and life-saving medicine. 
They make physical things but want 
to build and operate them digitally. To 
do so, a new type of operating system 
that is physically based is needed—one 
that understands the laws of physics.
NVIDIA Omniverse, our platform for 
industrial digitalization, builds virtual 
representations of physical things 
and assets—creating digital twins 
and connecting digital and physical 
worlds. Omniverse enables industries 
grounded in physical processes to 
become software-defined, realize 
unified digitalization, and connect 
large, highly skilled teams. 
This year, we announced Omniverse 
Cloud, making it easier to develop, 
deploy, and operate industrial 
digitalization applications from nearly 
anywhere, on almost any device.
NVIDIA is partnering with Microsoft 
to bring Omniverse to hundreds of 

millions of Microsoft 365 and Azure 
users. Omniverse Cloud connects 
to the Microsoft 365 productivity 
suite, including Teams, OneDrive, and 
SharePoint, and to Azure IoT Digital 
Twins services. This partnership will 
help connect the world’s industries 
to Omniverse Cloud—hosted 
in Azure and benefiting from 
Microsoft’s rich storage, security, 
applications, and services portfolio.
Omniverse can simulate the 
best possible factory and store 
layouts before laying the first 
brick. Utilizing digital twins reduces 
last-minute surprises, change 
orders, and plant opening delays. 
Virtual factory integration can save 
billions for the world’s factories.
Some of the most significant companies 
in the world are using Omniverse 
to digitalize their operations.
 › Amazon Robotics is using Omniverse 
to build AI-enabled digital twins of 
its warehouses to better optimize 
warehouse design and flow and train 
more intelligent robotic solutions. 
 › Lowe’s is using Omniverse to design, 
build, and operate digital twins of 
its stores to optimize operations.
 › BMW Group is using Omniverse to 
build a fully functioning factory digital 
twin before building it in the real world.
 › Mercedes-Benz and Jaguar Land Rover 
are both using Omniverse to generate 
scenarios to test and validate the next 
generation of autonomous vehicles.
Driving Automotive Growth
Generative AI and digitalization are 
reshaping the $3 trillion automotive 
industry, from design and engineering 
to manufacturing, autonomous 
driving, and customer experience. 
NVIDIA is at the epicenter of this 
industrial transformation, with a 
$14 billion automotive design win 
pipeline over the next six years. 
Developing self-driving cars is one of our 
most complex AI challenges. It requires 
two computers: an AI factory in the 
data center refining and testing the AI 
software and the AI computer in the car. 
Hundreds of partners across the 
automotive ecosystem are now 
developing software on NVIDIA 
DRIVE, including 20 of the top 30 
manufacturers building new energy 
vehicles, many of the industry’s tierone manufacturers and top software 
makers, plus eight of the largest 10 
trucking and robotaxi companies.
Looking Ahead
Accelerated computing and AI 
have arrived. We must accelerate 
every possible workload to reclaim 
power so that computing can be 
sustainable. Generative AI has created 
a new computing platform, like the 
PC, internet, and mobile cloud. More 
than 40,000 companies are already 
running on NVIDIA to speed up, scale 
up, and unlock previously impossibleto-solve problems. And our new DGX 
Cloud partnerships with the world’s 
leading cloud service providers, 
NVIDIA AI Foundation custom modelmaking foundry, and Omniverse 
Cloud services will further accelerate 
our engagement with the world’s 
industries as they race to reinvent 
themselves in this new computing era.
We faced many storms last year 
but did magnificent work through 
it all. I could not be prouder of 
our employees and more excited 
to build the future together.
Jensen Huang 
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA 
May 2023

Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting 
Proxy Statement and Form 10-K 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Certain statements in this document including, but not limited to, statements as to: the impact, benefits, abilities, features, performance, and 
availability of our products, services, and technologies, including CUDA, NVIDIA GPUs and acceleration libraries, NVIDIA RTX, NVIDIA HPC, NVIDIA 
AI and AI Inference platforms, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA Omniverse including Omniverse Cloud, cuQuantum, cuOpt, cuLitho, NVIDIA DGX H100 
systems, NVIDIA DGX AI supercomputers and supercomputing infrastructure, NVIDIA AI Foundations, GeForce NOW, DLSS 3, NVIDIA Reflex, 
DGX Cloud and SuperPOD, NeMo, Picasso, BioNeMo, and NVIDIA Clara; data center AI and accelerated workloads continuing to skyrocket; 
developers shifting to NVIDIA accelerated computing; the potential of generative AI to drive industrial productivity and advance the world’s most 
significant scientific challenges; generative AI accelerating industrial digitalization and the largest industries including auto, manufacturing, and 
pharmaceutical being reinvented with generative AI and becoming some of the most advanced technology industries; NVIDIA reshaping the 
future of computing; the number of developers working with CUDA expanding; data center consumption of global electricity continuing to grow 
and the impact thereof; data centers needing to accelerate every workload possible for computing to be sustainable; accelerated computing 
bending the energy consumption trendline away from runaway growth and toward a sustainable future; companies racing to explore the 
potential of ChatGPT; the abilities and impact of LLMs; the potential of generative AI models to amplify human productivity and its impacts 
being felt in industries ranging from healthcare and financial services, to design, art, and entertainment; the potential of AI and the future of AI 
as a new wave of computing; the proliferation of well-regarded tools, methods, and practices for safety and trustworthiness; general-purpose 
AI continuing to advance; companies learning from their proprietary data to train generative AI models to automate tasks that are valuable to 
their customers; generative AI transforming drug discovery; the insatiable demand to create realistic and interactive virtual worlds and the 
gaming market’s continued expansion; the future of gaming, including nearly everyone being a gamer someday and games being incredibly 
realistic; AI revolutionizing the GPU, computer graphics, and gaming technologies; accelerated computing and AI being the ways to sustainable 
computing for the planet; some of the most significant companies in the world using Omniverse to digitalize their operations; generative AI and 
digitalization reshaping the automotive industry; our automotive design win pipeline; our collaborations and partnerships with third parties and 
the benefits and impact thereof; our growth drivers and opportunities; and our markets, market position, and strategies are forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors 
that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, 
package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or 
enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners' products; design, manufacturing 
or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of 
performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the most 
recent reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K 
and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA 
without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except 
as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 

NOTICE OF 2023 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Date and time:
Thursday, June 22, 2023 at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location:
Virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023
Items of 
business:
Election of thirteen directors nominated by the Board of Directors
Advisory approval of our executive compensation
Advisory approval of the frequency of holding a vote on our executive compensation
Ratification of the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered 
public accounting firm for fiscal year 2024
Transaction of other business properly brought before the meeting
Record date:
You can attend and vote at the annual meeting if you were a stockholder of record at the close of 
business on April 24, 2023.
Stockholder list:
A list of stockholders entitled to vote at the close of business on the record date will be available 
during the annual meeting at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023 and at our 
headquarters, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California, for 10 days prior to the annual 
meeting to registered stockholders for any legally valid purpose related to the annual meeting. To 
schedule an appointment to view the stockholder list during the 10 days prior to the annual meeting, 
please contact us at shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com.
Virtual meeting 
admission:
We will be holding our annual meeting virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023. 
To participate in the annual meeting, you will need the control number included on your notice of 
proxy materials or printed proxy card.
Pre-meeting 
forum:
To communicate with our stockholders in connection with the annual meeting, we have established a 
pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com where you can submit advance questions. 
Your vote is very important. Whether or not you plan to attend the virtual annual meeting, PLEASE VOTE YOUR SHARES. 
As an alternative to voting during the virtual annual meeting, you may vote in advance online, by telephone or, if you have 
elected to receive a paper proxy card in the mail, by mailing the completed proxy card.
Important notice regarding the availability of proxy materials for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on 
June 22, 2023. This Notice, our Proxy Statement, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our Annual Review are available at 
www.nvidia.com/proxy.
By Order of the Board of Directors 
Timothy S. Teter 
Secretary
2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051
May 8, 2023

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DEFINITIONS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

PROXY SUMMARY

PROXY STATEMENT

Information About the 2023 Meeting

Proposal 1—Election of Directors

Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors

Our Director Nominees

Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance

Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors

Board Leadership Structure

Committees of the Board of Directors

Role of the Board in Risk Oversight

Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors

Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors

Majority Vote Standard

Board Meeting Information

Corporate Responsibility

Director Compensation

Review of Transactions with Related Persons

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Proposal 2—Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation

Executive Compensation

Compensation Discussion and Analysis

Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans

Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021

Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2023

Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 29, 2023

Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2023

Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control

Pay Ratio

Pay Versus Performance

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

Compensation Committee Report

Proposal 3—Approval of Frequency of Executive Compensation

Proposal 4—Ratification of the Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2024

Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Additional Information

Other Matters

This Proxy Statement contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical or current facts, including statements regarding 
our environmental, social and corporate governance plans and goals, made in this document are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based on our 
management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by 
terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar 
expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons. Risks and uncertainties that could 
cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 
29, 2023.

DEFINITIONS
2007 Plan

Artificial intelligence
Audit Committee of the Board
ASC 718
FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718: Compensation - Stock Compensation
Base Operating Plan
Performance goal necessary to earn the target award under the Variable Cash Plan and for the target number 
of SY PSUs to become eligible to vest
Board
The Company’s Board of Directors
CAP
“Compensation actually paid,” as defined under Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K
Compensation Committee of the Board
CD&A
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
CEO
Chief Executive Officer
CFO
Chief Financial Officer
Charter
The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Control Number
Identification number for each stockholder included in Notice or proxy card
Corporate responsibility
ERM
Enterprise risk management
ESPP

Exchange Act
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
FASB
Financial Accounting Standards Board
Fiscal 20__
The Company’s fiscal year ended on the last Sunday in January of the stated year
Form 10-K
The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2023 filed with the SEC on February 24, 2023
GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
Internal Revenue 
Code
U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
Lead Director
Lead independent director
Meeting
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
MY PSUs
Multi-year PSUs with a three-year performance metric, vesting after three years
Nasdaq
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
NCGC
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board
NEOs
Named Executive Officers consisting of our CEO, our CFO, and our other three most highly compensated 
executive officers as of the end of Fiscal 2023
Non-GAAP Operating 
Income
GAAP operating income, as the Company reports in its SEC filings, excluding stock-based compensation 
expense, acquisition termination cost, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, IP-related costs, legal 
settlement costs, contributions and other costs. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in 
our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results
Notice
Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials
NVIDIA, Company, 
we, us, our

NYSE
New York Stock Exchange
PACs
Political action committees
PSU
Performance stock unit
PwC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RBA
Responsible Business Alliance
RSU
Restricted stock unit
S&P 500
Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Index
SEC
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Section 162(m)
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
Securities Act
Securities Act of 1933, as amended
Stretch
Performance goal necessary for the maximum number of MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
Stretch Operating 
Plan
Performance goal necessary to earn the maximum award under the Variable Cash Plan and for the maximum 
number of SY PSUs to become eligible to vest
SY PSUs
PSUs with a single-year performance metric, vesting over four years
Target
Performance goal necessary for the target number of MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
Threshold
Minimum performance goal necessary to earn an award under the Variable Cash Plan and for SY PSUs and MY 
PSUs to become eligible to vest
TSR
Total shareholder return
Variable Cash Plan
The Company’s variable cash compensation plan

BUSINESS OVERVIEW
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. We specialize in 
markets in which our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. 
Fiscal 2023 Results
Revenue
Gross Margin
Operating Income
Diluted EPS
$27.0 billion 
56.9%
$4.2 billion
$1.74
flat year on year 
 down 8.0 points year on year 
down 58% year on year 
down 55% year on year 
Fiscal 2023 Reportable Segments
Our two reportable segments are “Compute & Networking” and “Graphics”: 
Compute & Networking
Graphics
All Other*
Consolidated
Revenue
$15.1 billion
$11.9 billion
$27.0 billion
up 36% year on year
down 25% year on year
flat year on year
Operating 
Income (Loss)
$5.1 billion
$4.6 billion
$(5.5) billion
$4.2 billion
up 11% year on year
down 46% year on year
down 58% year on year
* Includes expenses that our chief operating decision maker does not assign to either Compute & Networking or Graphics for purposes 
of making operating decisions or assessing financial performance. 
Fiscal 2023 Market Platforms
Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical:
Data Center
Gaming
Professional 
Visualization
Automotive
$15.0 billion revenue
up 41% year on year
$9.1 billion revenue
down 27% year on year
$1.5 billion revenue
down 27% year on year
$0.9 billion revenue
up 60% year on year

Recent Highlights
Recent business highlights include:
The NVIDIA Hopper GPU architecture and ramp of the first products based on the architecture, including the 
NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU

NVIDIA DGX Cloud, an AI supercomputing service that gives enterprises immediate access to the 
infrastructure and software needed to train advanced models for generative AI and other 
groundbreaking applications. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these 
services in their data centers
NVIDIA AI Foundations, a set of cloud services that advance enterprise-level generative AI and enable 
customization across use cases in areas such as text, visual content, and biology
NVIDIA Omniverse Cloud, a platform-as-a-service giving instant access to a full-stack environment to 
design, develop, deploy and manage industrial metaverse applications
New inference platforms for generative AI inflection
The new Ada Lovelace GPU architecture, and introduction of the first products based on Ada. We also introduced 
NVIDIA DLSS 3 for over 50 games and applications and brought GeForce RTX 4080-class performance to the 
GeForce NOW Ultimate membership tier
Production of the NVIDIA DRIVE Orin autonomous vehicle system-on-a-chip and introduction of next-generation 
NVIDIA DRIVE Thor
 Fiscal 2023 Returns to Shareholders
Total Shareholder Return*
Total Capital Returned to Shareholders
*Represents cumulative stock price appreciation with dividends 
reinvested and is measured for the applicable fiscal year periods 
based on our closing stock price of $203.65 on the last trading 
day of Fiscal 2023.
Please see our Form 10-K for more financial information for Fiscal 2023.

PROXY SUMMARY
This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in the proxy statement. This summary does not contain all the 
information that you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement carefully before voting.
2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
Date and time:
Thursday, June 22, 2023 at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location:
Virtually at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023
Record date:
Stockholders as of April 24, 2023 are entitled to vote
Admission to meeting:
You will need your Control Number to attend the 2023 Meeting
Voting Matters and Board Recommendations 
A summary of the 2023 Meeting proposals is below. Every stockholder’s vote is important. Our Board urges you to vote 
your shares FOR Proposals 1, 2 and 4 and 1 YEAR for Proposal 3. 
Matter
Page
Board 
Recommends
Vote Required 
for Approval
Effect of 
Abstentions
Effect of 
Broker NonVotes
Management Proposals:

Election of thirteen directors

FOR each 
director 
nominee
More FOR than 
AGAINST votes
None
None

Advisory approval of our 
executive compensation

FOR
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter
Against
None

Advisory approval of the 
frequency of holding an advisory 
vote on our executive 
compensation

1 YEAR
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter (1)
Against
None

Ratification of the selection of 
PwC as our independent 
registered public accounting 
firm for Fiscal 2024

FOR
Majority of 
shares present, in 
person or 
represented by 
proxy, and 
entitled to vote 
on this matter
Against
N/A (2)
(1) If none of the four choices for this proposal receive an affirmative vote from holders of a majority of the shares present, in person or represented by 
proxy, and entitled to vote on this matter, the Board will consider the choice that receives the highest number of votes as the choice supported by our 
stockholders
(2) Because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes

Election of Directors (Proposal 1)
The following table provides summary information about each director nominee:
Name
Age
Director 
Since
Independent
Financial 
Expert (1)
Committee Membership
Other Public 
Company Boards
Robert K. Burgess

Tench Coxe


John O. Dabiri

Persis S. Drell

NCGC
Jen-Hsun Huang

Dawn Hudson

CC Chairperson

(2)
Harvey C. Jones

CC, NCGC Chairperson (3)
Michael G. McCaffery

AC Chairperson (4)

Stephen C. Neal
Lead Director (5)

NCGC Chairperson (3)
Mark L. Perry
Lead Director (5)

AC, NCGC
A. Brooke Seawell

AC Chairperson (4)

Aarti Shah

Mark A. Stevens

(6)
AC, NCGC
(1) For purposes of qualifying as an AC financial expert
(2) Ms. Hudson is not seeking re-election to Modern Times Group MTG AB’s board of directors effective as of MTG’s 2023 annual general meeting
(3) Mr. Jones will serve as NCGC Chairperson until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Neal will take over as NCGC Chairperson
(4) Mr. McCaffery will serve as AC Chairperson until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Seawell will take over as AC Chairperson
(5) Mr. Perry will serve as Lead Director until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Neal will take over as Lead Director
(6) Previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006
Recent Refreshment, Board Demographics and Nominee Qualifications
Our director nominees exhibit a variety of competencies, professional experience, and backgrounds, and contribute 
diverse viewpoints and perspectives to our Board. While the Board benefits from the experience and institutional 
knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in new perspectives and ideas through the 
appointment of two new directors since 2020. The Board also regularly rotates committee membership and chairpersons 
to promote a diversity of viewpoints on the Board committees. 
The Board and the NCGC has identified and continue to seek highly qualified women and individuals from 
underrepresented groups to include in the initial pool of potential director nominees, as discussed below under Director 
Qualifications and Nomination of Directors. The Board’s commitment to achieving a diverse and inclusive membership is 
demonstrated by our director nominees. Three of our directors are women and three are ethnically and/or racially diverse. 
Our two newest members enhance the Board’s gender, ethnic and/or racial diversity. We expect Board diversity to 
increase before our 2024 Meeting.
Nominee Demographics

Nominee Skills, Competencies and Attributes
Below are the skills, competencies and attributes that our NCGC and Board consider important for our directors to have 
considering our current business and future market opportunities, and the director nominees who possess them: 
Senior 
Leadership 
Operations 
Experience
Industry 
Technical
Financial /
Financial 
Community
Governance 
& Public 
Company 
Board
Emerging 
Technologies 
& Business 
Models
Marketing, 
Communications 
& Brand 
Management
Regulatory, 
Legal & Risk 
Management
Human 
Capital 
Management 
Experience 
Diversity
Burgess
Coxe
Dabiri
Drell
Huang
Hudson
Jones
McCaffery
Neal
Perry
Seawell
Shah
Stevens
Corporate Governance Highlights
Our Board is committed to strong corporate governance to promote the long-term interests of the Company and our 
stockholders. We seek a collaborative approach to stockholder issues that affect our business and to ensure that our 
stockholders see our governance and executive pay practices as well-structured. In the Fall of 2022, we contacted our 
top institutional stockholders, representing an aggregate ownership of 32%, to gain insights into their views on corporate 
governance, environmental and social practices, and diversity and inclusion. 
Highlights of our corporate governance practices include: 
ü All Board members independent, except for our CEO
ü Independent Lead Director
ü Proxy access
ü Declassified Board
ü Majority voting for directors
ü Active Board oversight of enterprise risk and risk 
management
ü 75% or greater attendance by each Board member 
 at meetings of the Board and applicable 
 committees
ü Independent directors frequently meet in executive
 sessions
ü At least annual Board and committee self assessments 
ü Annual stockholder outreach, including Lead Director 
participation
ü Stock ownership guidelines for our directors and NEOs
Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation for Fiscal 2023 (Proposal 2)
We are asking our stockholders to cast a non-binding vote, also known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our NEOs’ 
compensation. The Board believes that our compensation policies and practices are effective in achieving our goals of 
paying for performance; providing competitive pay so that we may attract and retain a high-caliber executive team; 
aligning our executives’ interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value; and achieving simplicity and 
transparency with our compensation program. The Board and our stockholders have approved holding our “say-on-pay” 
votes annually. 
Executive Compensation Highlights
Our executive compensation program is designed to pay for performance. We utilize compensation elements that align 
our NEOs’ interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value. Our NEO pay is heavily weighted toward 
performance-based, “at-risk” variable cash and long-term equity awards that are only earned if the Company achieves 
pre-established corporate financial metrics, but capped at a maximum of 200% of target (or 150% of target for our CEO’s 
PSUs). For the last several years, over 90% of our CEO’s, and over 50% of our other NEOs’, target pay has been 
performance-based and at-risk, and 100% of our CEO’s equity awards have been in the form of PSUs only.

At our 2022 Meeting, approximately 93% of the votes cast approved the compensation paid to our NEOs for Fiscal 2022. 
After considering this advisory vote and the feedback from our annual stockholder outreach, our CC concluded that our 
program effectively aligned executive pay with stockholder interests. Therefore, the CC maintained the same elements 
and metrics for Fiscal 2023 executive compensation, but (i) increased the proportion of “at-risk” target pay, and (ii) set the 
Threshold performance goals for revenue and Non-GAAP Operating Income above record-level Fiscal 2022 results, both of 
which further aligned corporate performance and executive pay. 
Financial Performance and Link to Executive Pay
As described further in our CD&A, a significant portion of our executive pay opportunities are tied to the achievement of 
financial measures that drive business value and contribute to our long-term success. The table below shows our goals 
for the applicable periods that were completed at the end of Fiscal 2023 and their respective impact on our executive 
pay. 
PERFORMANCE GOALS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Fiscal 2023 
Revenue
Payout as a 
% of Target 
Opportunity
Fiscal 2023 
Non-GAAP 
Operating 
Income (1)
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % 
of Target 
Opportunity
Fiscal 2021 to 

 Relative TSR
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % 
of Target 
Opportunity
Threshold
$29.6 billion
50%
$13.2 billion
50%
25th percentile
25%
Base Operating Plan 
(Target for MY PSUs)
$33.5 billion
100%
$15.8 billion
100%
50th percentile
100%
Stretch Operating Plan 
(Stretch for MY PSUs)
$38.0 billion
200%
$18.3 billion
CEO 150%; 
Other NEOs 
200%
75th percentile
CEO 150%; 
Other NEOs 
200%
PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENT AND PAYOUTS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Performance 
Achievement for Period 
Ended Fiscal 2023
$27.0 billion revenue (2)
 
$9.0 billion Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (1) (2)
99th percentile 3-year TSR 
relative to S&P 500 (2)
Payout as % of Target 
Opportunity
CEO 150%; Other NEOs 200%
(1) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(2) See Performance Metrics and Goals for Executive Compensation in our CD&A for a description and further discussion of revenue, Non-GAAP Operating 
Income and 3-year relative TSR.
Advisory Approval of the Frequency of Holding a Vote on Executive Compensation (Proposal 3)
We are asking our stockholders to cast a non-binding vote, also known as “say-on-frequency,” to indicate their preference 
regarding how frequently we should solicit a non-binding advisory vote on the compensation of our NEOs. Accordingly, we 
are asking stockholders to indicate whether they would prefer an advisory vote every one, two or three years. The Board 
recommends holding our “say-on-frequency” votes annually.
Ratification of Selection of PwC as our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2024 (Proposal 4)
Although not required, we are asking our stockholders to ratify the AC’s selection of PwC as our independent registered 
public accounting firm for Fiscal 2024 because we believe it is a matter of good corporate practice. If our stockholders do 
not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider the appointment, but may nevertheless retain PwC. Even if the selection is 
ratified, the AC may select a different independent registered public accounting firm at any time if it determines that 
such a change would be in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders.

Corporate Responsibility 
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that enable scientists, engineers, designers, researchers, and developers to 
improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound CR principles and practices into every aspect 
of the Company. This proxy statement covers the following CR topics:

2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051
(408) 486-2000
 ____________________________________________________
PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2023 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS - JUNE 22, 2023
 ____________________________________________________
Information About the 2023 Meeting
Your proxy is being solicited for use at the 2023 Meeting on behalf of the Board. Our 2023 Meeting will take place 
virtually on Thursday, June 22, 2023 at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. 
Virtual Meeting Philosophy and Benefits
The Board believes that holding the 2023 Meeting in a virtual format invites stockholder participation, while reducing the 
costs to stockholders and the Company associated with an in-person meeting. This balance allows the 2023 Meeting to 
remain focused on matters directly relevant to the interests of stockholders in an efficient way. We have designed the 
virtual format to protect stockholder rights, including by offering multiple opportunities to ask questions, publishing 
answers to questions received before or during the 2023 Meeting on our Investor Relations website, and providing an 
archived copy of the webcast after the 2023 Meeting.
Meeting Attendance
If you were an NVIDIA stockholder as of the close of business on the April 24, 2023 record date, or if you hold a valid 
proxy, you can attend, ask questions during, and vote at our 2023 Meeting at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/
NVDA2023. Our 2023 Meeting will be held virtually; use the Control Number included on your Notice or printed proxy card 
to enter. Anyone can also listen to the 2023 Meeting live at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023. 
If you encounter any difficulties accessing the virtual 2023 Meeting during the check-in or the course of the 2023 
Meeting, please call the technical support number available on www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023.
An archived copy of the webcast will be available at www.nvidia.com/proxy through June 21, 2024. Even if you plan to 
attend the 2023 Meeting virtually, we recommend that you also vote by proxy as described below so that your vote will be 
counted if you later decide not to attend. 
Asking Questions
We encourage stockholders to submit questions through our pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com (using 
the Control Number included on your Notice or printed proxy card) as well as during the 2023 Meeting at 
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023. During the 2023 Meeting, we will answer as many stockholdersubmitted questions related to the business of the 2023 Meeting as time permits. As soon as practicable following the 
2023 Meeting, we will publish and answer questions received on our Investor Relations website. We intend to group 
questions and answers by topic and substantially similar questions will be answered only once. To promote fairness to all 
stockholders and efficient use of the Company’s resources, we will respond to one question per stockholder. We reserve 
the right to exclude questions regarding topics that are not pertinent to company business or are not otherwise suitable 
for the conduct of the 2023 Meeting.
Quorum and Voting
To hold our 2023 Meeting, we need a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the close of business on the 
April 24, 2023 record date, or a quorum, represented at the 2023 Meeting either by attendance virtually or by proxy. On 
April 24, 2023, there were 2,473,129,295 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote, meaning that 
1,236,564,648 shares must be represented at the 2023 Meeting or by proxy to have a quorum. A list of stockholders 
entitled to vote at the close of business on the record date will be available during the 2023 Meeting at 

www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVDA2023 and at our headquarters, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, 
California, for 10 days prior to the 2023 Meeting to registered stockholders for any legally valid purpose related to the 
2023 Meeting. To schedule an appointment to view the stockholder list during the 10 days prior to the 2023 Meeting, 
please contact us at shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com.
Your shares will be counted towards the quorum only if you submit a valid proxy or vote at the 2023 Meeting. Abstentions 
and broker non-votes will be counted towards the quorum requirement. If there is not a quorum, a majority of the votes 
present may adjourn the 2023 Meeting to another date.
For Proposal 1, you may vote FOR or AGAINST any nominee to the Board, or you may ABSTAIN from voting. For Proposal 
3, you may vote for 1 YEAR, 2 YEARS or 3 YEARS as the preferred frequency of the advisory vote on executive 
compensation or you may ABSTAIN from voting. For each other matter to be voted on, you may vote FOR or AGAINST or 
ABSTAIN from voting. 
Stockholder of Record
You are a stockholder of record if your shares were registered directly in your name with our transfer agent, 
Computershare, on April 24, 2023. You can vote shares, change your vote or revoke your proxy before the final vote at 
the 2023 Meeting in any of the following ways:
Vote
Change Your 
Vote
Revoke Your 
Proxy
Virtually attend and vote at the 2023 Meeting
Via mail, by signing and mailing your proxy card to us before the 2023 
Meeting
By telephone or online, by following the instructions provided in the Notice or 
your proxy materials
Submit another properly completed proxy card with a later date
Send a written notice that you are revoking your proxy to NVIDIA Corporation, 
2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051, Attention: 
Timothy S. Teter, Secretary or via email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com
If you do not vote using any of the ways described above, your shares will not be voted.
Street Name Holder 
If your shares were held through a nominee, such as a bank or broker, as of April 24, 2023, then you were the beneficial 
owner of shares held in “street name,” and you have the right to direct the nominee how to vote those shares for the 
2023 Meeting. The nominee should provide you a separate Notice or voting instructions, and you should follow those 
instructions to tell the nominee how to vote. To vote by attending the 2023 Meeting virtually, you must obtain a valid 
proxy from your nominee. 
If you are a beneficial holder and do not provide voting instructions to your nominee, the nominee will not be authorized 
to vote your shares on “non-routine” matters, including elections of directors (even if not contested), and executive 
compensation (including any advisory stockholder votes on executive compensation and on the frequency of holding such 
votes). This is called a “broker non-vote.” However, the nominee can still register your shares as being present at the 2023 
Meeting for determining quorum, and the nominee will have discretion to vote for matters considered by the NYSE to be 
“routine,” including Proposal 4 regarding the ratification of the selection of our independent registered public accounting 
firm. If you are a beneficial owner and want to ensure that all of the shares you beneficially own are voted in favor or 
against Proposal 4, you must give your broker or nominee specific instructions to do so or the broker will have discretion 
to vote on that proposal. In addition, you MUST give your nominee instructions in order for your vote to be counted on 
Proposals 1, 2 and 3, as these are “non-discretionary” items. We strongly encourage you to vote.
Any NVIDIA stockholder whose shares are held in street name by a member brokerage firm may revoke a proxy and vote 
his or her shares at the 2023 Meeting only in accordance with applicable rules and procedures of the national stock 
exchanges, as employed by the street name holder’s brokerage firm. 

Vote Count
On each matter to be voted upon, stockholders have one vote for each share of NVIDIA common stock owned as of April 
24, 2023. Votes will be counted by the inspector of election as follows:
Proposal 
Number
Proposal Description
Vote Required for Approval 
Effect of 
Abstentions
Effect of Broker 
Non-Votes

Election of thirteen directors
Directors are elected if they receive 
more FOR votes than AGAINST votes
None
None

Advisory approval of our executive 
compensation
FOR votes from the holders of a 
majority of shares present, in person or 
represented by proxy, and entitled to 
vote on this matter
Against
None

Advisory approval of the frequency of 
holding a vote on our executive 
compensation
The frequency receiving votes from the 
holders of a majority of shares present, 
in person or represented by proxy, and 
entitled to vote on this matter (1)
Against
None

Ratification of the selection of PwC as 
our independent registered public 
accounting firm for Fiscal 2024
FOR votes from the holders of a 
majority of shares present, in person or 
represented by proxy, and entitled to 
vote on this matter
Against
N/A (2)
(1) If none of the four choices for this proposal receive an affirmative vote from holders of a majority of the shares present, in person or represented by 
proxy, and entitled to vote on this matter, the Board will consider the choice that receives the highest number of votes as the choice supported by our 
stockholders.
(2) Because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes.
If you are a stockholder of record and you return a signed proxy card without marking any selections, your shares will be 
voted FOR each of the nominees listed in Proposal 1, for 1 YEAR for Proposal 3, and FOR the other proposals. If any other 
matter is properly presented at the 2023 Meeting, Jen-Hsun Huang or Timothy S. Teter as your proxyholder will vote your 
shares using his best judgment.
Vote Results
Preliminary voting results will be announced at the 2023 Meeting. Final voting results will be published in a current report 
on Form 8-K, which will be filed with the SEC by June 28, 2023.
Proxy Materials
As permitted by SEC rules, we are making our proxy materials available to stockholders online at www.nvidia.com/proxy. 
On or about May 8, 2023, we sent stockholders who owned our common stock at the close of business on April 24, 2023 
(other than those who previously requested electronic or paper delivery) a Notice containing instructions on how to 
access our proxy materials, vote online or by telephone, and elect to receive future proxy materials electronically or in 
printed form by mail.
If you choose to receive future proxy materials electronically (via www.proxyvote.com for stockholders of record and 
www.icsdelivery.com/nvda for street name holders), you will receive an email next year with links to the proxy materials 
and proxy voting site. 
SEC rules also permit companies and intermediaries, such as brokers, to satisfy Notice and proxy material delivery 
requirements for multiple stockholders with the same address by delivering a single Notice or set of proxy materials 
addressed to those stockholders. We follow this practice, known as “householding,” unless we have received contrary 
instructions from any stockholder at that address. 
If you received more than one Notice or full set of proxy materials, then your shares are either registered in more than 
one name or are held in different accounts. Please vote the shares covered by each Notice or proxy card. To modify your 
instructions so that you receive one Notice or proxy card for each account or name, please contact your broker. Your 
“householding” election will continue until you are notified otherwise or until you revoke your consent. 
To make a change regarding the form in which you receive proxy materials (electronically or in print), or to request receipt 
of a separate set of documents to a household, contact our Investor Relations Department (through our website at 
www.nvidia.com, by email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com, by phone at (408) 486-2000 or by mail at 2788 San Tomas 
Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051).
We will pay the entire cost of soliciting proxies. Our directors and employees may also solicit proxies in person, by 
telephone, by mail, via the Internet or by other means of communication. Our directors and employees will not be paid 
any additional compensation for soliciting proxies. We have also retained MacKenzie Partners on an advisory basis for an 
approximate fee of $15,000 and they may help us solicit proxies from brokers, bank nominees and other institutional 

owners. We may also reimburse brokerage firms, banks and other agents for the cost of forwarding proxy materials to 
beneficial owners.
2024 Meeting Deadlines for Submission of Stockholder Proposals, Nomination of Directors and Other Business of 
Stockholders
Proposals to be Considered for Inclusion in Our Proxy Materials Pursuant to Rule 14a-8
Stockholders who wish to present proposals pursuant to Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act for inclusion in 
the proxy materials to be distributed by us in connection with our 2024 Meeting must submit their proposals in writing to 

by email to shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com, on or before January 9, 2024.
Director Nominations Under Our Proxy Access Bylaw
A stockholder (or a group of up to 20 stockholders) who has owned at least 3% of the voting power of our outstanding 
capital stock for at least three continuous years and has complied with the other requirements in our Bylaws may 
nominate and include in our proxy materials director nominees constituting up to the greater of (a) up to two director 
candidates or (b) up to 20% of the number of directors in office on the last day that a submission may be delivered. 
Notice of a proxy access nomination for consideration at our 2024 Meeting must be received following the above 
instructions not later than the close of business on March 24, 2024, and not earlier than February 23, 2024. In the event 
that we hold the 2024 Meeting more than 30 days prior to, or delayed by more than 30 days after, the first anniversary of 
the 2023 Meeting, for written notice by the stockholder to be timely, such notice must be delivered following the above 
instructions not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the 2024 Meeting and not later than the close 
of business on the 90th day prior to the 2024 Meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement 
of the date of the 2024 Meeting is first made by us, whichever is later.
Other Director Nominations and Proposals
Apart from Rule 14a-8 and the proxy access provision of our Bylaws, under our Bylaws certain procedures must be 
followed for a stockholder to nominate a director or to introduce an item of business at an annual meeting of 
stockholders. If you wish to nominate a director or introduce an item of business at the 2024 Meeting that is not included 
in the proxy materials to be distributed by us in connection with our 2024 Meeting, you must do so in writing following 
the above instructions not later than the close of business on March 24, 2024, and not earlier than February 23, 2024. In 
the event that we hold the 2024 Meeting more than 30 days prior to, or delayed by more than 70 days after, the first 
anniversary of the 2023 Meeting, for written notice by the stockholder to be timely, such notice must be delivered 
following the above instructions not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the 2024 Meeting and 
not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the 2024 Meeting or the 10th day following the day on which 
public announcement of the date of the 2024 Meeting is first made by us, whichever is later.
Additional Requirements and Information
We also advise you to review our Bylaws, which contain additional requirements about advance notice of stockholder 
proposals, director nominations, and proxy access nominations. We recognize the importance of the ability of our 
stockholders to nominate directors to our Board. Accordingly, our Board will take into account feedback we receive from 
our stockholder engagement process regarding the process and disclosure requirements of our Bylaws for nominating 
directors and other proposals. Our Board will engage with stockholders of various holdings size regarding any proposed 
amendments to our Bylaws that would require a nominating stockholder to disclose to us (i) such stockholder’s plans to 
nominate candidates to the board of directors of other public companies, or disclose prior director nominations or 
proposals that such stockholder privately submitted to other public companies or (ii) information about such 
stockholder’s limited partners or business associates beyond the existing requirements of our Bylaws.

Proposal 1—Election of Directors
What am I voting on? Electing the 13 director nominees identified below to hold office until the 2024 Meeting and until 
his or her successor is elected or appointed.
Vote required for approval: Directors are elected if they receive more FOR votes than AGAINST votes.
Effect of abstentions: None.
Effect of broker non-votes: None.
Our Board has 13 members. All of our directors have one-year terms and stand for election annually. Our nominees 
include 12 independent directors, as defined by the rules and regulations of Nasdaq, and one NVIDIA officer: Mr. Huang, 
who serves as our President and CEO. Each of the nominees is currently a director of NVIDIA previously elected by our 
stockholders. 
The Board expects the nominees will be available for election. If a nominee declines or is unable to act as a director, your 
proxy may be voted for any substitute nominee proposed by the Board or the size of the Board may be reduced. 
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the election of each of the following nominees:
Name
Age
Director 
Since
Occupation
Independent
Financial 
Expert (1)
Committee 
Membership
Other Public 
Company 
Boards
Robert K. Burgess

Independent Consultant
Tench Coxe

Former Managing Director, 
Sutter Hill Ventures

John O. Dabiri

Centennial Professor of 
Aeronautics and Mechanical 
Engineering, California 
Institute of Technology
Persis S. Drell

Provost, Stanford University
NCGC
Jen-Hsun Huang

President & CEO, NVIDIA 
Corporation
Dawn Hudson

Former Chief Marketing 
Officer, National Football 
League
Chairperson

(2)
Harvey C. Jones

Managing Partner, Square 
Wave Ventures
CC, NCGC 
Chairperson (3)
Michael G. McCaffery

Chairman of the Board of 
Directors, Makena Capital 
Management
Chairperson (4)

Stephen C. Neal
Lead Director (5)

Chairman Emeritus & Senior 
Counsel, Cooley LLP
NCGC 
Chairperson (3)
Mark L. Perry
Lead Director (5)

Independent Consultant 
and Director 
AC, NCGC

A. Brooke Seawell

Venture Partner, New 
Enterprise Associates
Chairperson (4)

Aarti Shah

Former Senior Vice 
President & Chief 
Information and Digital 
Officer, Eli Lilly and 
Company
Mark A. Stevens

(6)
Managing Partner, S-Cubed 
Capital
AC, NCGC
(1) For purposes of qualifying as an AC financial expert
(2) Ms. Hudson is not seeking re-election to Modern Times Group MTG AB’s board of directors effective as of MTG’s 2023 annual general meeting
(3) Mr. Jones will serve as NCGC Chairperson until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Neal will take over as NCGC Chairperson
(4) Mr. McCaffery will serve as AC Chairperson until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Seawell will take over as AC Chairperson
(5) Mr. Perry will serve as Lead Director until our 2023 Meeting, at which time Mr. Neal will take over as Lead Director
(6) Previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006

Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors
The NCGC identifies, reviews and assesses the qualifications of existing and potential directors and selects nominees for 
recommendation to the Board for approval. In accordance with our Corporate Governance Policies and the NCGC Charter, 
the NCGC is committed to Board diversity and shall consider a nominee’s background and experience to ensure that a 
broad range of perspectives is represented on the Board. The NCGC may conduct appropriate and necessary inquiries 
into the backgrounds and qualifications of possible candidates and may engage a professional search firm to identify and 
assist the committee in identifying, evaluating, and conducting due diligence on potential director nominees. The NCGC 
has not established specific age, gender, education, experience, or skill requirements for potential members, and instead 
considers numerous factors regarding the nominee taking into account our current and future business models, including 
the following: 
• Integrity and candor
• Independence
• Senior leadership and operational experience
• Professional, technical and industry knowledge
• Financial expertise
• Financial community experience (including as an investor in 
other companies)
• Marketing, communications and brand management 
background
• Governance and public company board experience
• Experience with emerging technologies and new business 
models
• Regulatory, legal and risk management expertise, including in 
cybersecurity matters
• Diversity, including race, ethnicity, sexuality, gender or 
membership in another underrepresented community
• Human capital management experience
• Experience in academia
• Willingness and ability to devote substantial time and effort to 
Board responsibilities and Company oversight
• Ability to represent the interests of the stockholders as a whole 
rather than special interest groups or constituencies
• All relationships between the proposed nominee and any of our 
stockholders, competitors, customers, suppliers or other 
persons with a relationship to NVIDIA
• For nominees for re-election, overall service to NVIDIA, including 
past attendance, participation and contributions to the 
activities of the Board and its committees
The NCGC and the Board understand the importance of Board refreshment, and strive to maintain an appropriate balance 
of tenure, diversity, professional experience and backgrounds, skills, and education on the Board. While the Board 
benefits from the experience and institutional knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in 
new perspectives and ideas through the appointment of two new directors since 2020. The Board also regularly rotates 
membership on and who is appointed as chairperson of its committees to help promote a diversity of viewpoints on the 
Board committees. Our longer-tenured directors are familiar with our operations and business areas and have the 
perspective of overseeing our activities from a variety of economic and competitive environments. Our newer directors 
have brought expertise in brand development and cybersecurity and familiarity with technology developments at leading 
academic institutions that are important to supporting NVIDIA as it enters new markets. Each year, the NCGC and Board 
review each director’s individual performance, including the director’s past contributions, outside experiences and 
activities, and committee participation, and determine how his or her experience and skills continue to add value to 
NVIDIA and the Board.
The Board and the NCGC have identified and continue to seek highly qualified women and individuals from 
underrepresented groups to include in the initial pool of potential director nominees. The Board’s commitment to 
achieving a diverse and inclusive membership is demonstrated by our director nominees. Three of our directors are 
women and three are ethnically and/or racially diverse. Our two newest members enhance the Board’s gender, ethnic and/
or racial diversity. We expect Board diversity to increase before our 2024 Meeting.

Below are the skills, competencies and attributes that our Board considers important for our directors to have 
considering our current business and future market opportunities:
Senior Leadership 
& Operations 
Experience
Directors with senior leadership and operations experience provide experienced 
oversight of our business, and unique experiences and perspectives. They are uniquely 
positioned to contribute practical insight into business strategy and operations, driving 
growth, building and strengthening corporate culture and supporting the achievement 
of strategic priorities and objectives.
Industry & 
Technical
Directors with industry experience and technical backgrounds facilitate within the Board 
a deeper understanding of innovations and a technical assessment of our products and 
services. 
Financial/Financial 
Community
Experience in financial matters and the financial community assists our Board with 
review of our operations and finances, including overseeing our financial statements, 
capital structure and internal controls. Those with a venture capital background also 
offer valuable stockholder perspectives.
Governance & 
Public Company 
Board
Directors with experience in corporate governance, such as service on boards and board 
committees, or as executives of other large, public companies, are familiar with the 
dynamics and operation of a board of directors and the impact that governance policies 
have on a company. This experience supports our goals of strong Board and 
management accountability, transparency, and protection of stockholder interests. 
Public company board experience also helps our directors identify challenges and risks 
we face as a public company, including oversight of strategic, operational, compliancerelated matters and stockholder relations.
Emerging 
Technologies & 
Business Models
Experience in emerging technologies and business models is integral to our growth 
strategies given our unique business model and provides important insights as our 
business expands into new areas.
Marketing, 
Communications & 
Brand 
Management
Directors with experience in marketing, communications and brand management offer 
guidance on our products directly marketed to consumers, important perspectives on 
expanding our market share and communicating with our customers and other 
stakeholders.
Regulatory, Legal & 
Risk Management
Our business requires compliance with a variety of regulatory requirements in different 
jurisdictions. We face new regulatory matters and regulations as our business grows. 
We are also subject to multiple lawsuits. Directors with experience in governmental, 
public policy, legal and risk management areas, including cybersecurity, help provide 
valuable insights and oversight for our Company.
Human Capital 
Management 
Experience
Our people are critical to our success. Directors with experience in organizational 
management, talent development, and developing values and culture in a large global 
workforce provide key insights. Human capital management experience also assists our 
Board in overseeing executive and employee compensation, development, and 
engagement.
Diversity
Directors with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives improves the 
dialogue and decision-making in the board room and contributes to overall Board 
effectiveness. In the director biographies below, this icon indicates gender or ethnic 
diversity.

Our Board believes that having a diverse mix of directors with complementary qualifications, expertise and attributes is 
essential to meeting its oversight responsibility. The table below reflects certain diversity information based on selfidentification by each director.
Board Diversity Matrix (as of May 8, 2023)
Gender Identity
Demographic Background
Male
Female
NonBinary
Did not 
disclose
African 
American 
or Black
Hispanic 
or Latinx
Asian
Native 
American 
or Alaskan 
Native
Native 
Hawaiian 
or Other 
Pacific 
Islander
White
Two or 
more races 
ethnicities
LGBTQ+
Did not 
disclose
Burgess
Coxe
Dabiri
Drell
Huang
Hudson
Jones
McCaffery
Neal
Perry
Seawell
Shah
Stevens
The NCGC evaluates candidates proposed by stockholders using the same criteria as it uses for other candidates. 
Stockholders seeking to recommend a prospective nominee should follow the instructions under Stockholder 
Communications with the Board of Directors below. Stockholder submissions must include the full name of the proposed 
nominee, a description of the proposed nominee’s business experience for at least the previous five years, complete 
biographical information, a description of the proposed nominee’s qualifications as a director and a representation that 
the nominating stockholder is a beneficial or record owner of our stock. Any such submission must be accompanied by 
the written consent of the proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. 
Proxy Access
In addition, our Board voluntarily adopted proxy access. As a result, we will include in our proxy statement information 
regarding the greater of (a) up to two director candidates or (b) up to 20% of the number of directors in office on the last 
day that a submission may be delivered, if nominated by a stockholder (or group of up to 20 stockholders) owning at least 
3% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock for at least three continuous years. The stockholder(s) must 
provide timely written notice of such nomination and the stockholder(s) and nominee must satisfy the other 
requirements specified in our Bylaws. This summary of our proxy access rules is not intended to be complete and is 
subject to limitations set forth in our Bylaws and Corporate Governance Policies, both of which are available on the 
Investor Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com. Stockholders are advised to review these documents, which 
contain the requirements for director nominations. The NCGC did not receive any stockholder nominations during Fiscal 
2023.

Our Director Nominees 
The biographies below include information, as of the date of this proxy statement, regarding the particular experience, 
qualifications, attributes or skills of each director, relative to the skills matrix above, that led the NCGC and Board to 
believe that he or she should continue to serve on the Board. 
ROBERT K. BURGESS
Robert K. Burgess has served as an independent investor and 
board member to technology companies since 2005. He was 
chief executive officer from 1996 to 2005 of Macromedia, Inc., a 
provider of internet and multimedia software, which was acquired 
by Adobe Systems Incorporated; he also served from 1996 to 
2005 on its board of directors, as chairman of its board of 
directors from 1998 to 2005 and as executive chairman for his 
final year. Previously, he held key executive positions from 1984 
to 1991 at Silicon Graphics, Inc. (SGI), a graphics and computing 
company; from 1991 to 1995, served as chief executive officer 
and a board member of Alias Research, Inc., a publicly traded 3D 
software company, until its acquisition by SGI; and resumed 
executive positions at SGI during 1996. Mr. Burgess was a 
director of IMRIS Inc., a provider of image guided therapy 
solutions, from 2010 to 2013, of Adobe from 2005 to 2019, and 
of Rogers Communications Inc., a communications and media 
company, from 2016 to 2019. He holds a BCom degree from 
McMaster University.
Mr. Burgess brings to the Board senior management and operating 
experience and expertise in the areas of financial and risk 
management. He has been in the computer graphics industry since 
1984. He has a broad understanding of the roles and 
responsibilities of a corporate board and provides valuable insight 
on a range of issues in the technology industry.
Independent Consultant
Age: 65
Director Since: 2011
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience
TENCH COXE
Tench Coxe was a managing director of Sutter Hill Ventures, a 
venture capital investment firm, from 1989 to 2020, where he 
focused on investments in the IT sector. Prior to joining Sutter 
Hill Ventures in 1987, he was director of marketing and MIS at 
Digital Communication Associates. He serves on the board of 
directors of Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc., an 
institutional money management firm. He was a director of 
Mattersight Corp., a customer loyalty software firm, from 2000 
to 2018. Mr. Coxe holds a BA degree in Economics from 
Dartmouth College and an MBA degree from Harvard Business 
School.
Mr. Coxe brings to the Board expertise in financial and transactional 
analysis and provides valuable perspectives on corporate strategy 
and emerging technology trends. His significant financial 
community experience gives the Board an understanding of the 
methods by which companies can increase value for their 
stockholders.
Former Managing Director, 
Sutter Hill Ventures
Age: 65
Director Since: 1993
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards:
Artisan Partners Asset 
Management Inc. (since 
1995)
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience 

JOHN O. DABIRI
John O. Dabiri is the Centennial Professor of Aeronautics and 
Mechanical Engineering at the California Institute of Technology. 
He is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "Genius Grant," 
the National Science Foundation Alan T. Waterman Award, and 
the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers. 
He heads the Dabiri Lab, which conducts research at the 
intersections of fluid mechanics, energy and environment, and 
biology. From 2015 to 2019, he served as a Professor of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering and of Mechanical Engineering at 
Stanford University, where he was recognized with the Eugene L. 
Grant Award for Excellence in Teaching. From 2005 to 2015, he 
was a Professor of Aeronautics and Bioengineering at the 
California Institute of Technology, during which time he also 
served as Director of the Center for Bioinspired Wind Energy, 
Chair of the Faculty, and Dean of Students. Dr. Dabiri is a Fellow 
of the American Physical Society, where he previously served as 
Chair of the Division of Fluid Dynamics. He serves on President 
Biden's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) 
and Energy Secretary Granholm's Energy Advisory Board (SEAB). 
He also serves on the Board of Trustees of the Gordon and Betty 
Moore Foundation and previously served as a member of the 
National Academies’ Committee on Science, Technology, and 
Law. Dr. Dabiri holds a PhD degree in Bioengineering and an MS 
degree 
Aeronautics 
from 
the 
California 
Institute 
Technology, and a BSE degree summa cum laude in Mechanical 
and Aerospace Engineering from Princeton University. 
Dr. Dabiri brings to the Board a versatile research background and 
cutting-edge expertise in various engineering fields, along with a 
proven record of successful innovation.
Centennial Professor of 
Aeronautics and 
Mechanical Engineering, 
California Institute of 
Technology
Age: 43
Director Since: 2020
Committees: CC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Industry & Technical
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Diversity
PERSIS S. DRELL
Persis S. Drell has been the Provost of Stanford University since 
2017. A Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and 
Professor of Physics, Dr. Drell has been on the faculty at 
Stanford since 2002, and was the Dean of the Stanford School 
of Engineering from 2014 to 2017. She also served as the 
Director of SLAC from 2007 to 2012. Dr. Drell is a member of the 
National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of 
Arts and Sciences, and is a fellow of the American Physical 
Society and a fellow of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science. She has been the recipient of a 
Guggenheim Fellowship and a National Science Foundation 
Presidential Young Investigator Award. Dr. Drell holds a PhD 
from the University of California, Berkeley and an AB degree in 
Mathematics and Physics from Wellesley College.
An accomplished researcher and educator, Dr. Drell brings to the 
Board expert leadership in guiding innovation in science and 
technology.
Provost, Stanford University
Age: 67
Director Since: 2015
Committees: NCGC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity

JEN-HSUN HUANG
Jen-Hsun Huang founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served since its 
inception as president, chief executive officer, and a member of 
the board of directors. Mr. Huang is a recipient of the 
Semiconductor Industry Association’s highest honor, the Robert 
N. Noyce Award; IEEE Founder’s Medal; the Dr. Morris Chang 
Exemplary Leadership Award; and honorary doctorate degrees 
from Taiwan’s National Chiao Tung University, National Taiwan 
University, and Oregon State University. He was included in TIME 
magazine’s 2021 list of the world’s 100 most influential people. 
In 2019, Harvard Business Review ranked him No. 1 on its list of 
the world’s 100 best-performing CEOs over the lifetime of their 
tenure. In 2017, he was named Fortune’s Businessperson of the 
Year. Prior to founding NVIDIA, Huang worked at LSI Logic and 
Advanced Micro Devices. Mr. Huang holds a BSEE degree from 
Oregon State University and an MSEE degree from Stanford 
University. 
Mr. Huang is one of the technology industry’s most respected 
executives, having taken NVIDIA from a startup to a world leader in 
accelerated computing. Under his guidance, NVIDIA has compiled a 
record of consistent innovation and sharp execution, marked by 
products that have gained strong market share.
President and Chief 
Executive Officer, NVIDIA 
Corporation
Age: 60
Director Since: 1993
Committees: None
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity
DAWN HUDSON
Dawn Hudson serves on the boards of various companies. From 
2014 to 2018, Ms. Hudson served as Chief Marketing Officer for 
the National Football League. Previously, she served from 2009 
to 2014 as vice chairman of The Parthenon Group, an advisory 
firm focused on strategy consulting. She was president and chief 
executive officer of Pepsi-Cola North America, the beverage 
division of PepsiCo, Inc. for the U.S. and Canada, from 2005 to 
2007 and president from 2002, and simultaneously served as 
chief executive officer of the foodservice division of PepsiCo, Inc. 
from 2005 to 2007. Previously, she spent 13 years in marketing, 
advertising and branding strategy, holding leadership positions at 
major agencies, such as D’Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles and 
Omnicom Group Inc. Ms. Hudson currently serves on the board 
of directors of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., an 
advertising holding company; Modern Times Group MTG AB, a 
gaming company (1); and a private skincare company. She was a 
director of P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc., a restaurant chain, 
from 2010 to 2012; of Allergan, Inc., a biopharmaceutical 
company, from 2008 to 2014; of Lowes Companies, Inc., a home 
improvement retailer, from 2001 to 2015; and of Amplify Snack 
Brands, Inc., a snack food company, from 2014 to 2018. She 
holds a BA degree in English from Dartmouth College. 
Ms. Hudson brings to the board experience in executive leadership. 
As a longtime marketing executive, she has valuable expertise and 
insights in leveraging brands, brand development and consumer 
behavior. She also has considerable corporate governance 
experience, gained from more than a decade of serving on the 
boards of public companies. 
(1) Ms. Hudson is not seeking re-election to Modern Times Group MTG AB’s board of 
directors effective as of MTG’s 2023 annual general meeting
Former Chief Marketing 
Officer, National Football 
League
Age: 65
Director Since: 2013
Current Committees: CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
The Interpublic Group of 
Companies, Inc. (since 
2011)
Modern Times Group 
MTG AB (since 2020) (1)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience 
Diversity

HARVEY C. JONES
Harvey C. Jones has been the managing partner of Square Wave 
Ventures, a private investment firm, since 2004. Mr. Jones has 
been an entrepreneur, high technology executive and active 
venture investor for over 30 years. In 1981, he co-founded Daisy 
Systems 
Corp., 
computer-aided 
engineering 
company, 
ultimately serving as its president and chief executive officer 
until 1987. Between 1987 and 1998, he led Synopsys, Inc., a major 
electronic design automation company, serving as its chief 
executive officer for seven years and then as executive chairman. 
In 1997, Mr. Jones co-founded Tensilica Inc., a privately held 
technology IP company that developed and licensed high 
performance embedded processing cores. He served as chairman 
of the Tensilica board of directors from inception through its 
2013 acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. He was a 
director of Tintri Inc., a company that built data storage solutions 
for virtual and cloud environments, from 2014 to 2018. Mr. 
Jones holds a BS degree in Mathematics and Computer Sciences 
from Georgetown University and an MS degree in Management 
from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Mr. Jones brings to the board an executive management 
background, an understanding of semiconductor technologies and 
complex system design. He provides valuable insight into 
innovation strategies, research and development efforts, as well as 
management and development of our technical employees. His 
significant financial community experience gives the Board an 
understanding of the methods by which companies can increase 
value for their stockholders.
Managing Partner, Square 
Wave Ventures
Age: 70
Director Since: 1993
Current Committees: CC, 
NCGC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
MICHAEL G. 
McCAFFERY
Michael G. McCaffery is the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Makena 
Capital 
Management, 
LLC, 
investment 
management firm. From 2013 to 2023, he was the Managing 
Director of Makena Capital Management. From 2005 to 2013, he 
was the Chief Executive Officer of Makena Capital Management. 
From 2000 to 2006, he was the President and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Stanford Management Company, the university 
subsidiary charged with managing Stanford University’s financial 
and real estate investments. Prior to Stanford Management 
Company, Mr. McCaffery was President and Chief Executive 
Officer of Robertson Stephens and Company, a San Franciscobased investment bank and investment management firm, from 
1993 to 1999, and also served as Chairman in 2000. Mr. 
McCaffery is currently a director of C3.ai, Inc., an AI software 
provider, and also serves on the boards of directors, or on the 
advisory boards, of several privately held companies and nonprofits. He was a director of KB Home, a homebuilding company, 
from 2003 until 2015. He holds a BA degree from the Woodrow 
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton 
University, a BA Honours degree and an MA degree in Politics, 
Philosophy and Economics from Merton College, Oxford 
University, Oxford, England, and an MBA degree from the 
Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Mr. McCaffery brings to the Board a broad array of business, 
investment and real estate experience and recognized expertise in 
financial matters, as well as a demonstrated commitment to good 
corporate governance. 
Chairman of the Board of 
Directors, Makena Capital 
Management
Age: 69
Director Since: 2015
Committees: AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
C3.ai, Inc. (since 2009)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Human Capital Management 
Experience

STEPHEN C. NEAL
Stephen C. Neal serves as Chairman Emeritus and Senior Counsel 
of the law firm Cooley LLP, where he was also Chief Executive 
Officer from 2001 until 2008. In addition to his extensive 
experience as a trial lawyer on a broad range of corporate issues, 
Mr. Neal has represented and advised numerous boards of 
directors, special committees of boards and individual directors on 
corporate governance and other legal matters. Prior to joining 
Cooley in 1995, Mr. Neal was a partner of the law firm Kirkland & 
Ellis LLP. Mr. Neal served on the board of directors of Levi Strauss 
& Co. from 2007 to 2021, and served as chairperson from 2011 to 
2021. Mr. Neal holds an AB degree from Harvard University and a 
JD degree from Stanford Law School.
Mr. Neal brings to the Board deep knowledge and broad experience in 
corporate governance as well as his perspectives drawn from 
advising many companies throughout his career. 
Chairman Emeritus and 
Senior Counsel, Cooley LLP
Age: 74
Director Since: 2019
Committees: NCGC
Lead Director (As of 2023 
Meeting)
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital 
Management Experience
MARK L. PERRY
Mark L. Perry serves on the boards of, and consults for, various 
companies and non-profit organizations. From 2012 to 2015, Mr. 
Perry served as an Entrepreneur-in-Residence at Third Rock 
Ventures, a venture capital firm. He served from 2007 to 2011 as 
president and chief executive officer of Aerovance, Inc., a 
biopharmaceutical company. He was an executive officer from 
1994 to 2004 at Gilead Sciences, Inc., a biopharmaceutical 
company, serving in a variety of capacities, including general 
counsel, chief financial officer, and executive vice president of 
operations, responsible for worldwide sales and marketing, legal, 
manufacturing and facilities; he was also its senior business 
advisor until 2007. From 1981 to 1994, Mr. Perry was with the 
law firm Cooley LLP, where he was a partner for seven years. He 
served on the board of MyoKardia, Inc. from 2012 to 2020 and on 
the board of Global Blood Therapeutics, Inc. from 2015 to 2022. 
Mr. Perry holds a BA degree in History from the University of 
California, Berkeley, and a JD degree from the University of 
California, Davis.
Mr. Perry brings to the Board operating and finance experience 
gained in a large corporate setting. He has varied experience in legal 
affairs and corporate governance, and a deep understanding of the 
roles and responsibilities of a corporate board. 
Independent Consultant and 
Director
Age: 67
Director Since: 2005
Committees: AC, NCGC
Lead Director (Until 2023 
Meeting)
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience

A. BROOKE SEAWELL
A. Brooke Seawell has served since 2005 as a venture partner at 
New Enterprise Associates, and was a partner from 2000 to 2005 
at Technology Crossover Ventures. He was executive vice 
president from 1997 to 1998 at NetDynamics, Inc., an application 
server 
software 
company, 
which 
was 
acquired 
Sun 
Microsystems, Inc. He was senior vice president and chief 
financial officer from 1991 to 1997 of Synopsys, Inc., an 
electronic design automation software company. He serves on 
the board of directors of Tenable Holdings, Inc., a cybersecurity 
company, and several privately held companies. Mr. Seawell 
served on the board of directors of Glu Mobile, Inc., a publisher of 
mobile games, from 2006 to 2014, of Informatica Corp., a data 
integration software company, from 1997 to 2015, of Tableau 
Software, Inc., a business intelligence software company, from 
2011 to 2019, and of Eargo, Inc., a medical device company, from 
2020 to 2022. He also previously served as a member of the 
Stanford University Athletic Board and on the Management 
Board of the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Mr. Seawell 
holds a BA degree in Economics and an MBA degree in Finance 
from Stanford University. 
Mr. Seawell brings to the Board operational expertise and senior 
management experience, including knowledge of the complex 
issues facing public companies, and a deep understanding of 
accounting principles and financial reporting. His significant 
financial community experience gives the Board an understanding 
of the methods by which companies can increase value for their 
stockholders.
Venture Partner, New 
Enterprise Associates
Age: 75
Director Since: 1997
Committees: AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
Tenable Holdings, Inc. 
(since 2017)
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Human Capital Management 
Experience
AARTI SHAH
Aarti Shah serves on the boards of various companies and nonprofit organizations. Dr. Shah worked at Eli Lilly and Company for 
27.5 years and served in several functional and business 
leadership roles, most recently as senior vice president and chief 
information and digital officer, as well as senior statistician, 
research scientist, vice president for biometrics, and global brand 
development leader in Lilly’s Bio-Medicines business unit. Dr. 
Shah has served on the board of trustees of Northwestern 
Mutual since 2020. She also serves on several nonprofit boards, 
including the Indiana India Business Council and Shrimad 
Rajchandra Love & Care USA. She served on the Indianapolis 
Public Library Foundation board for the full term of 9 years and 
on the Center for Interfaith Cooperation for the full term of 4 
years. Dr. Shah received her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 
statistics and mathematics in India before completing her PhD in 
applied statistics from the University of California, Riverside. 
Dr. Shah brings to the Board executive leadership and senior 
operating experience. Additionally she brings expertise in drug 
development and technical expertise in the areas of information 
technology, cybersecurity, advanced analytics, data sciences and 
digital health.
Former Senior Vice President 
& Chief Information and 
Digital Officer, Eli Lilly and 
Company
Age: 58
Director Since: 2020
Committees: AC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Senior Leadership & 
Operations Experience
Industry & Technical
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models
Marketing, Communications 
& Brand Management
Regulatory, Legal & Risk 
Management
Human Capital Management 
Experience
Diversity

MARK A. STEVENS
Mark A. Stevens has been the managing partner of S-Cubed 
Capital, a private family office investment firm, since 2012. He 
was a managing partner from 1993 to 2011 of Sequoia Capital, a 
venture capital investment firm, where he had been an associate 
for the preceding four years. Previously, he held technical sales 
and marketing positions at Intel Corporation, and was a member 
of the technical staff at Hughes Aircraft Co. Mr. Stevens is a 
Trustee of the University of Southern California. He was a 
director of Quantenna Communications, Inc., a provider of Wi-Fi 
solutions, from 2016 until 2019. Mr. Stevens holds a BSEE degree, 
a BA degree in Economics and an MS degree in Computer 
Engineering from the University of Southern California and an 
MBA degree from Harvard Business School.
Mr. Stevens brings to the Board a deep understanding of the 
technology industry, and the drivers of structural change and highgrowth opportunities. He provides valuable insight regarding 
corporate strategy development and the analysis of acquisitions 
and divestitures. His significant financial community experience 
gives the Board an understanding of the methods by which 
companies can increase value for their stockholders.
Managing Partner, S-Cubed 
Capital
Age: 63
Director Since: 2008
(previously served 
1993-2006)
Committees: AC, NCGC
Independent Director
Other Current Public 
Company Boards: 
None
Industry & Technical
Financial/Financial 
Community
Governance & Public 
Company Board
Emerging Technologies & 
Business Models

Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors
Nasdaq rules and our Corporate Governance Policies (as further described below) require that a majority of our directors 
not have a relationship that would interfere with their exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their 
responsibilities and that they meet any other qualification requirements required by the SEC and Nasdaq. 
Dr. Drell has served as Provost of Stanford University since 2017. NVIDIA has entered into transactions, relationships or 
arrangements during the past three fiscal years with Stanford University for the support of research and activities 
related to NVIDIA’s industry and line of business. The amount that NVIDIA paid in each of the last three fiscal years to 
Stanford University, and the amount received in each of those years by NVIDIA from Stanford University, did not, in any of 
those years, exceed the greater of $200,000 or 1% of either entity’s consolidated gross revenues. 
After considering the above arrangements, and all other relevant relationships and transactions, our Board determined 
that, except for Mr. Huang, all of our directors are “independent” as defined by Nasdaq’s rules and regulations. The Board 
also determined that all members of our AC, CC and NCGC are independent under applicable Nasdaq listing standards, 
and that each of Messrs. McCaffery, Perry and Seawell of the AC are “audit committee financial experts” as defined under 
applicable SEC rules.
Board Leadership Structure
Our Board ensures that each member has an equal voice in the affairs and the management of NVIDIA by having an 
independent Lead Director, rather than a chairperson, which the Board believes best serves our stockholders. Our Lead 
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and critical to our effective corporate governance. The independent 
directors consider the role and designation of the person to serve as Lead Director on an annual basis. The Board 
recognizes that different board leadership structures may be appropriate under different circumstances and its annual 
review includes consideration of whether having a Lead Director continues to best meet NVIDIA’s evolving needs and 
serves in the best interest of its stockholders. 
Our Board believes its current leadership structure is appropriate because the active involvement of each of our 
independent directors, combined with the qualifications, significant responsibilities and strong oversight by our Lead 
Director, provide balance on the Board and promote independent oversight of our management and affairs. Our Board 
also believes its current leadership structure is appropriate because it effectively allocates authority, responsibility and 
oversight between management and our independent directors and it provides the right foundation to pursue the 
Company’s strategic and operational objectives, particularly in light of the evolution of our business and operating 
environment. Our CEO has primary responsibility for the operational leadership and strategic direction of the Company, 
and the Lead Director facilitates our Board’s independent oversight of management, promotes communication between 
management and our Board, and supports our Board’s consideration of key governance matters. This arrangement 
promotes open dialogue among the Board, including discussions of the independent directors during quarterly executive 
sessions without the presence of our CEO, which are led by our Lead Director. We believe that our current structure best 
serves stockholders, without the need to appoint a person to serve as chairperson of the Board.
Under our corporate governance policies, the Board may select a chairperson in its discretion, but, if it does not, a Lead 
Director shall be designated annually by a majority of the independent directors and identified in the Company’s proxy 
statement. These policies help to ensure a robust independent leadership structure on our Board. 
While the Board has the discretion to consider other leadership structures, including having the Lead Director (or 
chairperson, if any) and CEO roles filled by a single individual, it would only consider a change if it best aligned with the 
interests of our stockholders, management, and the Board, and it complied with applicable laws and regulations. If in the 
future our CEO were to take a leadership position on the Board, such as chairperson, we expect that the Board would 
continue to appoint an independent Lead Director to maintain a balanced and strong leadership structure and otherwise 
represent the Board independently from the Company’s management team. Any changes to the Board’s leadership 
structure would take into account stockholder views, including through our ongoing stockholder outreach, and would be 
communicated to stockholders on our Investor Relations website and in our proxy statement.
Contingent upon re-election to the Board, as of the 2023 Meeting, Mr. Neal will be appointed as our Lead Director and 
also take over as NCGC Chairperson, the latter of which will afford him increased engagement with Board governance and 
risk assessment and with management of the Company, as well as input on the design and composition of the Board. Our 
Lead Director may provide input on the design of the Board as requested by the NCGC. In his role as NCGC Chairperson, 
we expect our Lead Director to lead discussions, provide input and oversee the design of the Board itself.
Mr. Neal has served as a director since 2019 and currently serves as a member of the NCGC. Mr. Neal has extensive 
experience as a trial lawyer and has advised numerous companies, boards of directors and individuals on corporate 
governance and legal matters. He has also helped clients manage internal and government investigations. Mr. Neal also 
has executive experience from his time serving as Cooley LLP’s CEO, and board experience from serving on the Levi 
Strauss & Co. board of directors. The Board believes Mr. Neal’s experience, breadth of knowledge and contributions to the 

Board position him well to provide strong leadership and oversight of ongoing Board matters and to contribute valuable 
insight with respect to the Company’s business. The Board believes that Mr. Neal is highly qualified to assist the Board in 
overseeing the identification, assessment and management of the Company’s exposure to various risks as a result of his 
extensive risk management, legal and executive experience. The Board believes that Mr. Neal will be able to provide 
leadership and help guide the Board’s independent oversight of the Company’s risk exposures through his role as Lead 
Director. Further information on the Board’s oversight of risk management is detailed below under Role of the Board in 
Risk Oversight.
Our Lead Director has significant responsibilities, which are set forth in our Corporate Governance Policies, and include 
the duties listed below.
Duties of Our Lead Director
Determining an appropriate schedule of Board meetings and seeking to ensure that the 
independent members of the Board can perform their duties responsibly while not 
interfering with the flow of our operations
Working with the CEO, and seeking input from other directors and relevant 
management, as to the preparation of the agendas for Board meetings
Advising the CEO on a regular basis as to the quality, quantity and timeliness of the flow 
of information requested by the Board from our management with the goal of providing 
what is necessary for the independent members of the Board to effectively and 
responsibly perform their duties, and, although our management is responsible for the 
preparation of materials for the Board, the Lead Director may specifically request the 
inclusion of certain material
Coordinating, developing the agenda for, and moderating executive sessions of the 
independent members of the Board and acting as principal liaison between them and 
the CEO on sensitive issues
Presiding over Board meetings when the CEO is not present
Convening meetings of the independent directors as necessary or appropriate
Being available to engage with stockholders, as necessary or appropriate
Performing such other duties as the Board may determine from time to time
Our Lead Director may require Board consideration of risk matters, including adding them to board agendas or as topics 
for executive sessions of the independent members of the Board. As discussed further below, the Board maintains 
oversight of strategic risks for the Company and works with the CEO to address risk management matters.
In addition, our Lead Director may represent the Board in communications with stockholders and other stakeholders. The 
Lead Director makes themself available for consultation with major stockholders pursuant to our Corporate Governance 
Policies. For the past five years that Mr. Perry served as Lead Director, he participated in our annual stockholder outreach 
meetings. We expect Mr. Neal to continue this participation.
Committees of the Board of Directors
The Board has three committees: an AC, a CC and a NCGC. Each of these committees operates under a written charter, 
which may be viewed under Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com. 
Committee assignments are determined based on background and the expertise which individual directors can bring to a 
committee. Our Board believes regular committee rotations are a good corporate governance practice which introduces 
diverse perspectives and ideas, more fully informs its members regarding the full scope of the Board and our activities, 
and benefits each committee and the Board as a whole. The composition and functions of our committees are set forth 
below. 

Members as of our 2022 Meeting
Members as of our 2023 Meeting
Michael G. McCaffery (Chairperson)
A. Brooke Seawell
Mark L. Perry
Aarti Shah
Mark A. Stevens
A. Brooke Seawell (Chairperson)
Michael G. McCaffery
Mark L. Perry
Aarti Shah
Mark A. Stevens
In Fiscal 2023, the AC met five times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: supply chain operations, 
capitalization review and strategy, COVID-19 and return to work, tax, treasury, internal audit and information 
security reviews.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Oversees our corporate accounting and financial reporting process;
Oversees our internal audit function;
Determines and approves the engagement, retention and termination of the independent registered 
public accounting firm;
Evaluates the performance of and assesses the qualifications of our independent registered public 
accounting firm;
Reviews and approves the retention of the independent registered public accounting firm for permissible 
audit and non-audit services;
Confers with management and our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the results 
of the annual audit, our quarterly financial statements and results, and the effectiveness of internal 
control over financial reporting, including those regarding information security;
Reviews the financial statements to be included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual report 
on Form 10-K;
Reviews earnings press releases and the substance of financial information and outlook provided to 
investors and analysts on earnings calls;
Adopts and maintains policies regarding preapproval of employment of individuals employed or formerly 
employed by auditors and engaged on our account;
Prepares the report required to be included by SEC rules in our annual proxy statement or Form 10-K; 
Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regarding 
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and the confidential and anonymous 
submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters; 
Oversees risks related to financial reporting and exposures, internal audit functions, regulatory and 
accounting policies; and
Reviews and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies 
and practices and the internal controls regarding information security risks
Members as of our 2022 Meeting (no changes being made)
Dawn Hudson (Chairperson)
Robert K. Burgess
Tench Coxe
John O. Dabiri
Harvey C. Jones
In Fiscal 2023, the CC met five times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: regulatory updates 
related to compensation and trading plans, executive and employee compensation practices, review of benefits and 
well-being programs, human capital management and employee demographics, review of pay equity, employee 
retention, and the Company’s share usage and strategy.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Reviews and approves our overall compensation strategy and policies;
Reviews and recommends to the Board the compensation of our Board members;
Reviews and approves the compensation and other terms of employment of Mr. Huang and other 
executive officers;
Reviews and approves corporate performance goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of our 
executive officers and other senior management;
Reviews and approves the disclosure contained in CD&A and for inclusion in the proxy statement and 
Form 10-K;
Administers our stock purchase plans, variable compensation plans and other similar programs; 
Oversees our human capital management practices including policies related to diversity, inclusion and 
belonging;
Assesses and monitors whether our compensation policies and programs have the potential to encourage 
excessive risk-taking; and
Oversees risks related to compensation plans, programs and policies, and human capital management

NCGC
Members as of our 2022 Meeting
Members as of our 2023 Meeting
Harvey C. Jones (Chairperson) 
Stephen C. Neal
Persis S. Drell 
Mark L. Perry
Mark A. Stevens
Stephen C. Neal (Chairperson)
Harvey C. Jones
Persis S. Drell 
Mark L. Perry
Mark A. Stevens
In Fiscal 2023, the NCGC met three times. Selected highlights from its agenda topics included: consideration of 
Board recruiting matters, and current Board member backgrounds and skills; the Company’s CR efforts, particularly 
those related to climate change, corporate responsibility and our diversity and inclusion initiatives; and addressing 
stockholder concerns.
Committee Role and Responsibilities
Identifies, reviews and evaluates candidates to serve as directors;
Recommends candidates for election to our Board;
Makes recommendations to the Board regarding committee membership and chairpersons;
Assesses the performance of the Board and its committees;
Reviews and assesses our corporate governance principles and practices;
Monitors changes in corporate governance practices and rules and regulations;
Approves related party transactions;
Reviews and assesses our CR strategy, risks and opportunities periodically, including related programs and 
initiatives; 
Oversees and reviews policies and practices on trade compliance, regulatory matters and related risks;
Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regarding 
violations of our Code of Conduct; and
Monitors the effectiveness of our anonymous tip process

Role of the Board in Risk Oversight
The Board oversees risk management at NVIDIA and delegates oversight of appropriate topics to its committees. The 
oversight responsibility of our Board and its committees is enabled by management reporting processes, including our 
ERM process, that are designed to provide visibility to our Board about the identification, assessment and management 
of critical risks and management’s risk mitigation strategies. Our Board retains direct oversight of strategic risks to 
NVIDIA and other risk areas not delegated to one of its committees. 
RISK OVERSIGHT AT NVIDIA
Board of Directors
Oversees management of major risks
Business Model
Strategic Execution
Product Quality and Safety
Operational, including Supply Chain 
and Sourcing
Regulatory, Public Policy, 
Legal, Intellectual Property 
and Compliance
Financial and Macroeconomic
Information Security, including 
Cybersecurity
Brand and Reputation
Business Continuity
Corporate Development and 
Acquisitions
Management Development
Enterprise Resource Planning
NCGC
Financial statement, and earnings 
materials integrity and reporting
Compensation policies, plans, 
practices and programs for 
directors, executives and 
employees
Governance structure, processes 
and policies, including as it relates 
to regulatory changes and other 
developments
Financial risk exposures, including 
investments, cash management, 
and foreign exchange management
Human capital management, 
including recruiting, 
retention, development, 
diversity, inclusion and 
belonging
Stockholder concerns, and policies 
and procedures for communication
Disclosure controls and procedures
Effectiveness of our anonymous tip 
process
Legal, regulatory and compliance
Information security and 
cybersecurity policies and practices 
and the internal controls regarding 
information security risks
CR oversight
Board and committee composition 
and refreshment, and board 
performance assessment
Oversees the performance of the 
internal audit function, including 
auditor functions, performance and 
independence
Legal and regulatory matters, 
including trade compliance
Related party transactions
Accounting and audit principles and 
policies, and regulatory and 
accounting initiatives
Policies and practices related to 
government relations, public policy, 
and related expenditures
Management
Executive management identifies and manages business risks; the ERM process identifies and monitors risk; and reports 
to the Board on management, oversight and mitigation of risks
Internal Audit
Provides independent assurance on design and effectiveness of internal controls and governance processes
A review of risk and risk management by our Board, including strategic and information security matters, is integral to 
NVIDIA’s long-term objectives, and by retaining oversight of risks at the Board level, we believe we have established a 
process allowing for thorough assessment of these matters. Given the importance of topics like information security to 
our business, which includes cybersecurity, the Board has determined that these matters should remain under the full 
Board’s oversight. The AC supplements full Board oversight by reviewing and reporting on the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies and practices and the internal controls regarding 
information security risks. The AC receives quarterly information security updates from management, including our Chief 
Security Officer and members of our security team. The full Board also receives annual reports on information security 
matters, including cybersecurity, from our Chief Security Officer and members of our security team.
The involvement of our Board committees is designed to increase the effectiveness of the Board's risk oversight by 
allocating authority and responsibility, as set forth in committee charters, to the particular committee that is best 
equipped to provide guidance and oversight regarding the operations, issues and risks presented, with escalation to the 
full Board as appropriate. The AC also meets in executive session with the leaders of our key control functions, which 
ensures that Board members have direct access to these teams, and that these teams are appropriately staffed and 
resourced. Committee chairpersons provide regular reports to the full Board regarding matters reviewed by their 

committees, including key risks, and the committees work together with the full Board to facilitate the receipt of the 
information deemed necessary to fulfill their oversight responsibilities over our risk management activities. Our Board 
believes that our Board leadership structure helps to facilitate its oversight of risk at the Company because its strong 
independent Lead Director and independent committees proactively provide oversight of and engage with management 
on the Company’s key risks. For further discussion, please see Board Leadership Structure above.
Each year management leads an ERM process, which includes a formal assessment of the Company’s risk environment. 
The ERM process is overseen and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Our ERM process identifies, assesses and 
manages the Company’s most significant risks and uncertainties that could materially impact the long-term health of the 
Company or prevent the achievement of strategic objectives.
Our ERM team works with senior management to identify major risks to the Company. The ERM process results are 
reviewed by our CEO, CFO, EVP of Worldwide Field Operations, EVP of Operations, General Counsel and internal audit 
team. We do not have a member of senior management with the title of Chief Compliance Officer, as we believe it is more 
effective to have our senior management, who report directly to our CEO, responsible for managing key risks specific to 
their functional areas. Because risks are considered in conjunction with the Company’s operations and strategies, 
including long-term strategies, risks are identified and evaluated across different timeframes, including in the short-, 
intermediate- and long-term, depending on the specific risk. In evaluating top risks, the Board and management consider 
short-, intermediate-, and long-term potential impacts on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of 
operations, which involves looking at the internal and external environment when evaluating risks, risk amplifiers and 
emerging trends, and they consider the risk horizon as part of prioritizing the Company’s risk mitigation efforts. The 
Company’s most significant risks identified through the ERM process are reviewed annually with the Board, including the 
potential impact and likelihood of the risks materializing over the relevant timeframe, future threats and trends, and the 
actions, strategies, processes, controls, and procedures used or to be implemented to manage and mitigate the risks. As 
a part of this annual process the Board provides feedback on risk ranking and risk management strategies, as well as the 
ERM process.
The Board and its committees receive updates, as appropriate, during the year from management regarding the risk 
management processes, operations and organization, the mitigation of key existing and emerging risks and, as 
appropriate, provide feedback to address these matters, including those related to cybersecurity, trade compliance and 
strategy. Management’s regular attendance at Board and committee meetings provides Board members direct access to 
our management team and the opportunity for the Board to receive updates on our risk exposure. Further, the agendas 
for each Board meeting, as determined by our CEO and Lead Director, are developed and adjusted throughout the year, to 
adapt to any emerging risks or key topics.
The Company’s ERM process is structured to achieve robust and thoughtful Board-level attention on the Company’s risk 
management process and the nature of the material risks faced by the Company. It is also designed so that the Board 
can respond to and mitigate these risks in a manner that closely aligns to the Company’s disclosure controls and 
procedures. The ERM results are reviewed and considered by members of management who are responsible for our 
public reporting and the Board. Our public reports are prepared by management who participate in the ERM process, and 
are reviewed by the Board or its committees, as appropriate, and this process contributes to the effective functioning of 
our disclosure controls and procedures. Our risk oversight processes and disclosure controls and procedures are 
designed to appropriately identify potential risks for disclosure.
The Board, each of its committees, and senior management may, and have in the past, engaged outside advisors, experts 
and consultants, to help develop and analyze the Company’s risk management and mitigation efforts and associated 
controls and procedures, as well as to help the Company anticipate future threats and trends which could have an impact 
on our business. The ERM process also facilitates the incorporation of risk assessment and evaluation into the strategic 
planning process and the provision of regular reports to senior management, including the CEO, regarding the actions, 
strategies, processes, controls, and procedures specific to managing, mitigating, and anticipating significant risks. 
Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors
The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Policies to ensure that the Board has the necessary authority and 
processes in place to review and evaluate our business operations as needed and to make decisions that are independent 
of our management. These policies include practices the Board follows with respect to its composition and selection, 
regular evaluations of the Board and its committees, Board meetings and involvement of senior management, senior 
management performance evaluation, and Board committees and compensation. These policies may be viewed under 
Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com.
Executive Sessions of the Board
As required under Nasdaq’s listing standards, our independent directors meet regularly in scheduled executive sessions at 
which only independent directors are present, as well as in sessions with the CEO. In Fiscal 2023, our independent 
directors met in both types of executive sessions at three of our scheduled quarterly Board meetings.

Director Attendance at Annual Meeting
We expect that our directors will attend each annual meeting, absent a valid reason. All Board members attended our 
2022 Meeting.
Board Self-Assessments
The NCGC oversees an evaluation process, conducted at least annually, whereby outside legal counsel for NVIDIA 
interviews each director to obtain his or her evaluation of the Board as a whole, and of the committees on which he or she 
serves. The interviews solicit ideas from the directors about, among other things, improving the quality of Board and/or 
committee oversight effectiveness regarding strategic direction, financial and audit matters, executive compensation, 
acquisition activity and other key matters. The interviews also focus on Board process and identifying specific issues 
which should be discussed in the future. After these evaluations are complete, our outside corporate counsel summarizes 
the results, reviews them with our Lead Director, and then submits the summary for discussion by the NCGC. 
In response to the evaluations conducted in Fiscal 2023, our Board determined to focus on the Company’s supply chain, 
cybersecurity, human capital management, environmental commitments, and regulatory matters, and requested 
additional reviews of senior management performance. The Board also determined to focus on the Board’s composition 
and process for Board refreshment.
Director Orientation and Continuing Education
The NCGC and our General Counsel are responsible for new director orientation and for administering or approving 
eligible director continuing education programs. Continuing education programs for directors may include a combination 
of internally developed materials and presentations, programs presented by third parties, and financial and administrative 
support for attendance at qualifying academic or other independent programs. 
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
Our Corporate Governance Policies require each non-employee director to hold shares of our common stock with a total 
value equal to six times the annual cash retainer for Board service during the period in which he or she serves as a 
director (or six times his base salary, in the case of the CEO). The shares may include vested deferred stock, shares held in 
trust and shares held by immediate family members, but unvested or unexercised equity awards do not count for 
purposes of this ownership calculation. Non-employee directors have five years after their Board appointment to reach 
the ownership threshold. Our stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align director interests with stockholder 
interests.
Each non-employee director and Mr. Huang currently meets or exceeds the stock ownership requirements, with the 
exception of Dr. Dabiri, who joined our Board in 2020 and has five years from joining the Board to reach the ownership 
threshold.
Hedging and Pledging Policy 
Under our Insider Trading Policy, our directors, executive officers, employees, and their designees may not hedge their 
ownership of NVIDIA stock, including but not limited to trading in options, puts, calls, or other derivative instruments 
related to NVIDIA stock or debt. Additionally, directors, executive officers, employees, and their designees may not 
purchase NVIDIA stock on margin, borrow against NVIDIA stock held in a margin account, or pledge NVIDIA stock as 
collateral for a loan. We allow for certain portfolio diversification transactions, such as investments in exchange funds.
Management Development
The Board reviews, on an annual basis, management development for senior management and discusses candidates to 
fulfill senior management’s, including the CEO’s, responsibilities on an interim basis in the event that a member of senior 
management is disabled or otherwise incapacitated. The Board’s goal is to have long-term, effective leadership 
continuity.
Outside Advisors
The Board and each of its principal committees may retain outside advisors and consultants of their choosing at our 
expense. The Board need not obtain management’s consent to retain outside advisors. In addition, the principal 
committees need not obtain either the Board’s or management’s consent to retain outside advisors.
Code of Conduct
Our directors, executives and employees are expected to conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity, ethics 
and honesty. Our credibility and reputation depend upon their good judgment, ethical standards and personal integrity. 
Our Code of Conduct applies to all executive officers, directors and employees, including our principal executive officer, 
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Financial Team Code of Conduct applies to our executive 
officers, directors and members of our finance department. We regularly review our Code of Conduct and related policies 

to ensure that they provide clear guidance to our directors, executives and employees. We also regularly train our 
employees on our Code of Conduct and other policies.
The Code of Conduct and the Financial Team Code of Conduct may be viewed under Governance in the Investor Relations 
section of our website, at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to either code, or grant any waiver from a 
provision of either code to any executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the nature of the amendment or 
waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference 
into this or any other report we file with the SEC.
Corporate Hotline
We have established an independent corporate hotline to allow any employee, contractor, customer or partner to 
confidentially and anonymously submit a complaint about any accounting, internal controls, auditing, Code of Conduct or 
other matter of concern (unless prohibited by local privacy laws).
Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors
Stockholders who wish to communicate with the Board regarding nominations of directors or other matters may do so by 
sending 
electronic 
written 
communications 
addressed 
Timothy 
Teter, 
our 
Secretary, 
shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com. All stockholder communications we receive that are addressed to the Board will be 
compiled by our Secretary. If no particular director is named, letters will be forwarded, depending on the subject matter, 
to the chairperson of the AC, CC or NCGC. Matters put forth by our stockholders will be reviewed by the NCGC, which will 
determine whether these matters should be presented to the Board. The NCGC will give serious consideration to all such 
matters and will make its determination in accordance with its charter and applicable laws.
Majority Vote Standard
Under our Bylaws, in an uncontested election, stockholders will be given the choice to cast votes FOR or AGAINST the 
election of directors or to ABSTAIN from such vote and shall not have the ability to cast any other vote with respect to 
such election of directors. A director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of the votes cast with 
respect to that director, meaning the number of shares voted FOR a director must exceed the number of votes cast 
AGAINST that director. If the votes cast FOR an incumbent director in a non-contested election do not exceed the 
number of AGAINST votes, such incumbent director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The NCGC or 
other committee that may be designated by the Board will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or 
reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on such committee’s recommendation 
and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale within 90 days from the date of certification of the election results. In 
making their decision, such committee and the Board will evaluate the best interests of the Company and its 
stockholders and shall consider all factors and information deemed relevant. The director who tenders his or her 
resignation will not participate in such committee’s recommendation or the Board’s decision.
In a contested election, in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, stockholders will 
be given the choice to cast FOR or WITHHOLD votes for the election of directors and shall not have the ability to cast any 
other vote with respect to such election of directors. Our directors will be elected by a plurality of the shares represented 
at any such meeting or by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors at that meeting. The directors receiving 
the greatest number of FOR votes will be elected.
In either case, abstentions and broker non-votes will each be counted as present for purposes of determining the 
presence of a quorum but will have no effect on the vote.
Board Meeting Information
The Board met seven times during Fiscal 2023, including meetings during which the Board discussed the strategic 
direction of NVIDIA, explored and discussed new business and strategic opportunities and the product roadmap, and 
other matters facing NVIDIA. We expect each Board member to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees 
on which he or she serves. Each Board member attended 75% or more of the meetings of the Board and of each 
committee on which he or she served during Fiscal 2023.

Corporate Responsibility
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound 
CR principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. Our Board and management believe that environmental 
stewardship, social responsibility and solid governance are important to our business strategy and long-term value 
creation. While the full Board has ultimate responsibility for CR matters that impact our business, each committee of the 
Board oversees CR matters across our business operations in the areas that align with their respective responsibilities. 
The NCGC is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our policies, issues and reporting related to CR, 
including overall CR strategy, risks and opportunities, and related programs and initiatives. The AC has primary 
responsibility for overseeing our risk management program, and supplements the Board’s oversight of risks related to the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s information security policies and practices and the internal controls 
regarding information security risks. The CC is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our human 
capital management practices, including diversity and inclusion matters. We assess our programs annually in 
consideration of stakeholder expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These issues are 
important for our continued business success and reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders. 
The following sections provide an overview of our principles and practices. More information can be found on the 
Corporate Responsibility section of our website and in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, or CR Report. 
Information contained on our website or in our annual CR Report is not incorporated by reference into this or any other 
report we file with the SEC. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K for a discussion of risks and uncertainties 
we face related to CR.
Climate Change
In the area of sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our product lifecycle and assess risks, including 
current and emerging regulations and market impacts. The NCGC oversees NVIDIA’s strategy for managing climaterelated risks, opportunities and initiatives.
In our CR Report published in July 2022, we published metrics related to our environmental impact for Fiscal 2022. Fiscal 
2023 metrics are expected to be published in the first half of Fiscal 2024. There has been no material impact to our 
capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position associated with global sustainability regulations, 
compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of Fiscal 2025, our goal is to purchase or generate 
enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.
Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or designs to support high-performance 
supercomputers, improving energy efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes. GPUs are 
inherently more energy efficient than other forms of computing because they are optimized for throughput, performance 
per watt and certain AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is evidenced by our continued strong presence 
on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient systems. We powered 23 of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, 
including the top supercomputer, on the November 2022 Green500 list.
We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable 
scientists, companies, and policy makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change and 
explore mitigation and adaptation strategies. 
Human Capital Management
The CC is charged with oversight of human capital management, including with respect to employee diversity, equity and 
inclusion, talent acquisition, retention and development, employee engagement and corporate culture. In addition, the full 
Board periodically discusses these topics. We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role 
in creating long-term value for our stakeholders. As of the end of Fiscal 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 
19,532 were engaged in research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and 
administrative positions.
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must recruit, develop, and retain talented 
employees, including qualified executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff.
Recruitment
As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have 
been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our differentiated hiring 
strategies for university, professional, executive and diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring 
opportunities in new geographies and provided increased flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. 
Approximately 80% of our workforce is technical and approximately 50% of our workforce holds advanced degrees.

In Fiscal 2023, we slowed our hiring to focus on our current employees and manage costs. We continue to attract global 
talent from universities through on-campus collaborations with professors and student organizations, as well as 
engagement with technical organizations and participation at industry conferences. Our employees also help to recruit 
top talent, with over one third of our new hires in Fiscal 2023 coming from employee referrals.
Development and Retention
We encourage life-long learning. We support employee development through self-learning, on-the-job experiences, and 
learning from each other. We have an extensive library of on-demand technical and non-technical content. We provide inperson learning experiences that include interactive workshops, panel discussions and speaker forums. We curate 
learning paths on targeted areas of skill development. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational 
programs and advanced certifications. We encourage internal mobility through career coaching that advises employees 
on developmental activities and internal transfer opportunities. We have implemented specifically designed mentoring 
and development programs for women and employees from traditionally underrepresented groups to ensure widespread 
readiness for future advancement.
To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party 
platform. Pulse surveys help us gain insight into employee experience and provide ideas so that we can prioritize areas to 
take action. The suggestion box is an always-on, interactive tool where employees share their thoughts about making our 
company a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to protect the identity of the reporter 
and provide a mechanism for reporters to follow an investigation and receive responses.
We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and 
stay. In Fiscal 2023, our overall turnover rate was 5.3%.
Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being
Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage employees to invest in the Company’s 
future. Employees receive equity, except where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to our stock price and 
vests over time to help retain employees while aligning their interests with those of our stockholders.
We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees’ and their families’ well-being, including physical, mental and 
financial health. These benefits include our 401(k) programs in the U.S., statutory pension programs outside the U.S., our 
employee stock purchase program, flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address mental health, stress, and 
time-management challenges. We evaluate our benefit offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across 
the regions where we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on community needs, including 
assistance for military members, additional mental health benefits, and support for new birth parents, and those who 
wish to become parents.
Diversity and Inclusion
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that supports all 
employees.
When recruiting for new talent or managing current talent, we focus on recruiting, developing, and retaining a more 
diverse workforce with a focus on those historically underrepresented in the technology field, including women, Black/
African American, and Hispanic/Latino candidates.
To this end, we:
Partner with institutions and professional organizations serving historically underrepresented communities;
Assign dedicated recruiting teams to support candidates from historically underrepresented groups through the 
interview process;
Embed inclusion recruiting partners throughout the business to help align candidates with internal opportunities;
Support the development of women employees through programs aimed at building a pipeline of future leaders;
Provide peer support and executive sponsors for nine internal community resource groups;
Provide training and education to managers and peers on fostering supportive environments and recruiting for 
diversity; 
Ensure we have and review a diverse pool of candidates for job requisitions; and
Measure year over year progress and provide leadership visibility on diversity efforts.
As of the end of Fiscal 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our 
workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees. Of our NEOs, 
40% are women and 40% are ethnically and/or racially diverse.

We strive to provide equitable compensation and opportunities for advancement to all employees and to achieve 
promotion parity based on gender, race, and ethnicity. 
To ensure pay parity, defined as no statistically significant differences in compensation based on gender, race, or 
ethnicity, we have used a third-party firm each year since 2015 to analyze our pay practices for gender, race and ethnicity, 
including based on individual performance ratings, education, years of experience, job function, job family, and position 
level. We have achieved pay parity for the past several years and seek to continue doing so. 
In Fiscal 2023, we promoted 14% of our workforce, with women and men being promoted at an approximately equal rate.
Health and COVID-19
We supported our employees and their families in making their health and safety a top priority during Fiscal 2023 and 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to keep our workforce safe. 
Hybrid Working Environment
We support a hybrid work environment, understanding that many employees want the flexibility to work in the office or 
from home, and to make that decision based on the conditions around them at any point in time.
Steps we have taken to support employees working from home include:
Home-focused health and well-being programs;
Learning and development resources on how to work, lead and manage remotely; and
Opportunities for employees to socially connect with one another virtually.
During Fiscal 2024, we will continue a flexible work environment. We have also instituted Company-wide “rest days” each 
quarter where the Company unplugs for two consecutive days so that employees can recharge. 
Information Security and Data Privacy
We design our products to protect the privacy, networks, computers, programs, information and data of our customers, 
partners, and employees. The Board is committed to strong and meaningful information security and privacy protections. 
Our Chief Security Officer and members of our security team present at least annually to our Board and provide updates 
throughout the year as needed. These leaders also update the AC quarterly.
Our information security, including cybersecurity, practices comprise the physical, procedural, and technical safeguards 
we take and are designed to protect customer and employee information from unauthorized access or attack, and 
measures designed to secure NVIDIA networks, systems, devices, products, and services in order to secure the privacy of 
our customers’ and employees’ data. We established a cross-functional leadership team, consisting of executive-level 
leaders, that meets monthly to review cybersecurity matters and evaluate emerging threats. To ensure a robust breadth 
of knowledge, the team consults as needed with external parties, such as computer security firms and risk management 
and governance experts. With oversight and guidance provided by the cross-functional leadership team, our information 
security teams continually refine our practices to address emerging security risks and changes in regulations. 
We have a privacy policy that describes how we collect, use, store, process, share and protect customer data, as well as 
how customers can access and manage their personal data. We seek to uphold the legal protections safeguarding the 
privacy of our customers’ data. Our employees are required to complete information security awareness training and to 
comply with our information security and privacy policies.
Human Rights
We define human rights as the fundamental rights, freedoms and standards of treatment belonging to all humans. Our 
approach to human rights is aligned with internationally recognized human rights principles, including the United Nations 
Global Compact, the United Nations Guiding Principles, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Core 
Conventions of the International Labour Organization, and the International Labour Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we follow the laws of the countries in which we operate.
We have codified our approach to human rights in our Human Rights Policy and work to embed human rights 
considerations into decision-making processes throughout the Company.

Supply Chain Management
We seek to promote human rights throughout our supply chain and expect our suppliers to respect human rights 
whenever they provide products or services for us.
We are a full member of the RBA, an international industry organization dedicated to corporate social responsibility in 
global supply chains. Since adopting the RBA Code of Conduct in 2007 when we first became an RBA member, we have 
continued to integrate its elements into our processes, including auditing strategic suppliers and conducting internal 
assessments to confirm that we are addressing all aspects of responsible supply chain management. All of our 
manufacturing suppliers are expected to comply with the RBA Code of Conduct and associated NVIDIA policies, including 
an Agreement for Manufacturer Environmental Compliance.
We expect our suppliers to maintain progressive employment, environmental, health, safety and ethical practices that 
meet or exceed applicable laws, the RBA Code of Conduct, our Corporate Social Responsibility Directive, our Code of 
Conduct and our Human Rights Policy. We also encourage suppliers to use the RBA Code of Conduct as a platform to go 
above and beyond compliance. We monitor our supply chain through the RBA’s Validated Assessment Program and work 
directly with suppliers to implement any corrective actions. 
We seek to use in our products gold, tantalum, tungsten, and tin from conflict-free sources, as explained in more detail in 
our Responsible Minerals Policy.
Trustworthy AI
We seek to advance trustworthy AI that is founded in our core values, reflects our Code of Conduct and is rooted in the 
principles of upholding human rights. We recognize that technology can have a profound impact on people and the world 
and have therefore set priorities that aim to foster positive change and enable trust and transparency in AI development.
Our products are programmable and general purpose in nature. When we provide tools to help developers create 
applications for specific industries, we focus on creating products and services that enable developers to create and 
accelerate socially beneficial applications. 
Public Policy Engagement and Accountability
Our NCGC oversees our public policy engagement and accountability. Our Government Relations team engages in public 
policy advocacy to affect government action on issues of importance to our business, customers, stockholders, and 
employees, and to provide thought leadership to global governments on issues that directly affect our business. It is also 
a platform for educating policymakers through demonstrations of NVIDIA’s technology, amplifying our work in targeted 
areas, and collaborating with various organizations on issues of shared interest. We focus our public policy activities in AI, 
specifically to promote investment in core AI research, support workforce development around AI, and provide 
educational resources to technology policy advisors. NVIDIA may incur expenditures to support or educate viewpoints on 
public policy issues, including expenditures for intermediaries that advocate on our behalf if it is in our best interest.
NVIDIA does not make contributions of any kind (money, employee time, goods or services, or employee expense 
reimbursements), to political parties or candidates, including any direct contributions to any intermediary organizations, 
such as PACs or lobbyists, campaign funds, or trade or industry associations or super PACs. This policy applies in all 
countries and across all levels of government, even where such contributions are permitted by law.
We belong to trade associations worldwide, representing the interests of the technology industry, industries in which we 
operate and the broader business community. Where required by law, we file lobbying disclosure reports with U.S. federal, 
state and local governments. 
Management reports to the NCGC about our policies and practices in connection with governmental relations, public 
policy advocacy, and related expenditures.

memberships, and related expenditures, are available on our website at https://investor.nvidia.com/governance/
governance-documents.

Director Compensation
The CC reviews our non-employee director compensation annually with the assistance of Exequity LLP, the CC’s 
independent compensation consultant. Exequity LLP prepares a comprehensive assessment of our program, including 
comparison to the executive compensation peer group most recently approved by the CC at the time of assessment, an 
update on recent trends in director compensation, and a review of related corporate governance best practices. 
For our non-employee director compensation program for the year starting on the date of our 2022 Meeting, or the 2022 
Program, the CC recommended, and the Board approved, maintaining the same compensation as the previous year — a 
mix of cash and equity awards with an approximate annual value of $340,000. This was slightly below the median total 
annual compensation paid by the peer group to their non-employee directors. We do not pay additional fees for serving as 
a Lead Director, as chairperson or member of our AC, CC or NCGC (our three standard Board committees), or for meeting 
attendance. Directors who are also employees do not receive fees or equity compensation for service on the Board. 
Cash Compensation 
The cash portion of the annual retainer was $85,000, paid quarterly. 
Equity Compensation
The target value of the equity portion of the annual retainer was $255,000, granted as RSUs on the first trading day 
following the date of our 2022 Meeting, or the 2022 Program RSUs. 
The number of shares subject to each director’s 2022 Program RSUs equaled this value, divided by the 30-calendar day 
trailing average closing price of our common stock ending the business day before the 2022 Meeting. A trailing average 
was used instead of a single stock price on the date of grant to reduce possible market volatility. The CC understands 
that using historical average stock prices can result in the ultimate grant date value of an award, as required to be 
reported in the Director Compensation Table under ASC 718, being different than the target equity value the CC intends 
to deliver. The CC considered various approaches to calculating the number of shares underlying the 2022 Program RSUs 
and determined the process described above is appropriate at this time.
To correlate the vesting of the 2022 Program RSUs to the directors’ service on the Board and its committees over the 
following year, 50% of the RSUs vested on the third Wednesday in November 2022 and 50% will vest on the third 
Wednesday in May 2023. If a director’s service terminates due to death, their RSU grants will immediately vest in full for 
the benefit of their beneficiaries. Directors do not receive dividend equivalents on unvested RSUs.
Non-employee directors can elect to defer settlement of RSUs upon vesting for tax planning purposes to the earlier of (i) 
a future year (no sooner than 2024 for the 2022 Program RSUs) or (ii) in connection with the director’s cessation of 
service or certain change in control events, in accordance with the rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue 
Code. Messrs. Coxe and Jones, and Dr. Shah elected to defer settlement of their 2022 Program RSUs.
Other Compensation/Benefits
Our directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending Board and committee meetings and continuing 
educational programs pursuant to our Corporate Governance Policies. We do not offer change-in-control benefits to our 
directors, except for vesting acceleration under our equity plans that applies to all award holders under such plans if an 
acquirer does not assume or substitute for those awards.

Director Compensation for Fiscal 2023
Name
Fees Earned or Paid in Cash ($)
Stock Awards ($) (1)
Total ($)
Robert K. Burgess
85,000
268,978
353,978
Tench Coxe
85,000
268,978
353,978
John O. Dabiri 
85,000
268,978
353,978
Persis S. Drell
85,000
268,978
353,978
Dawn Hudson
85,000
268,978
353,978
Harvey C. Jones
85,000
268,978
353,978
Michael G. McCaffery
85,000
268,978
353,978
Stephen C. Neal 
85,000
268,978
353,978
Mark L. Perry
85,000
268,978
353,978
A. Brooke Seawell
85,000
268,978
353,978
Aarti Shah 
85,000
268,978
353,978
Mark A. Stevens
85,000
268,978
353,978
(1) 
Amounts shown do not reflect amounts actually received by the director. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant date fair value, 
calculated in accordance with ASC 718, for RSU awards granted during Fiscal 2023. The assumptions used in the calculation of award values are set 
forth in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K. On June 3, 2022, each non-employee 
director serving on the Board received their RSU grant for 1,438 shares, representing their 2022 Program RSUs. The grant date fair value per share for 
these awards as determined under ASC 718 was $187.05. 
The following table provides information regarding the aggregate number of unvested RSUs held by each of our nonemployee directors as of January 29, 2023: 
Name
RSUs
Name
RSUs
Robert K. Burgess

Michael G. McCaffery

Tench Coxe

Stephen C. Neal

John O. Dabiri
1,135
Mark L. Perry

Persis S. Drell

A. Brooke Seawell

Dawn Hudson

Aarti Shah
1,287
Harvey C. Jones

Mark A. Stevens

None of our non-employee directors held unexercised stock options as of January 29, 2023.

Review of Transactions with Related Persons
Employees, officers and directors must avoid any activity that conflicts with, or has the appearance of conflicting with, 
our interests. This policy is included in our Code of Conduct and our Financial Team Code of Conduct. We regularly 
conduct a review of all related party transactions for potential conflicts of interest and all transactions involving 
executive officers or directors must be approved by the NCGC in compliance with the Company’s policies and the Listing 
Standards of The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Except as discussed below, there were no transactions with related 
persons in Fiscal 2023 that would require disclosure in this proxy statement or approval by the NCGC. 
Transactions with Related Persons
The daughter of Jen-Hsun Huang, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, is employed at 

to Mr. Huang. Her compensation was determined in accordance with NVIDIA’s compensation practices applicable to 
employees with comparable qualifications and responsibilities and holding similar positions and without the involvement 
of Mr. Huang. Her total compensation for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2023 did not exceed $165,000. She has 
received and continues to be eligible for equity awards on the same general terms and conditions as applicable to 
employees in similar positions who do not have such family relationship.
Additionally, the son of Mr. Huang is employed at NVIDIA. He does not share a household with Mr. Huang, is not one of our 
executive officers and does not report directly to Mr. Huang. His compensation was determined in accordance with 
NVIDIA’s compensation practices applicable to employees with comparable qualifications and responsibilities and holding 
similar positions and without the involvement of Mr. Huang. His total compensation for the fiscal year ended January 29, 
2023 did not exceed $130,000. He has received and continues to be eligible for equity awards on the same general terms 
and conditions as applicable to employees in similar positions who do not have such family relationship.
We have entered into indemnity agreements with our executive officers and directors which provide, among other things, 
that we will indemnify such executive officer or director, under the circumstances and to the extent provided for therein, 
for expenses, damages, judgments, fines and settlements he or she may be required to pay in actions or proceedings 
which he or she is or may be made a party by reason of his or her position as a director, executive officer or other agent of 
NVIDIA, and otherwise to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law and our Bylaws. We intend to execute similar 
agreements with our future executive officers and directors.
See the section below titled Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements for a description of the terms of 
the 2007 Plan, related to a change-in-control of NVIDIA.
During Fiscal 2023, we granted RSUs to our non-employee directors, and RSUs and PSUs to our executive officers. See 
the section above titled Director Compensation and the section below titled Executive Compensation.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
The following table sets forth information as of April 3, 2023 as to shares of our common stock beneficially owned by 
each of our NEOs, each of our directors, all of our directors and executive officers as a group, and all known by us to be 
beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the SEC’s 
rules and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to securities as well as shares of common stock 
subject to options exercisable, or PSUs or RSUs that will vest, within 60 days of April 3, 2023.
This table is based upon information provided to us by our executive officers and directors. Information about principal 
stockholders, other than percentages of beneficial ownership, is based solely on Schedules 13G/A filed with the SEC. 
Unless otherwise indicated and subject to community property laws where applicable, we believe that each of the 
stockholders named in the table has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares indicated as 
beneficially owned. Percentages are based on 2,473,105,748 shares of our common stock outstanding as of April 3, 2023, 
adjusted as required by SEC rules. 
Name of Beneficial Owner
Shares Owned
Shares Issuable 
Within 60 Days
Total Shares 
Beneficially 
Owned
Percent
NEOs:
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
86,403,193 (1)
 
475,000 
 
86,878,193 
3.51%
Colette M. Kress
 
478,297 (2)
 
 
478,297 
Ajay K. Puri
 
363,780 (3)
 
 
363,780 
Debora Shoquist
 
278,224 (4)
 
 
278,224 
Timothy S. Teter
 
200,050 (5)
 
 
200,050 
Directors, not including Mr. Huang:
Robert K. Burgess
 
28,859 

29,578 
Tench Coxe
 
4,185,524 (6)
 
 
4,185,524 
John O. Dabiri
 
1,282 

2,001 
Persis S. Drell
 
42,559 

43,278 
Dawn Hudson
 
81,783 (7)

82,502 
Harvey C. Jones
 
998,328 (8)
 
 
998,328 
Michael G. McCaffery 
 
21,451 (9)

22,170 
Stephen C. Neal
 
9,435 (10)

10,154 
Mark L. Perry
 
152,243 (11)

152,962 
A. Brooke Seawell
 
501,579 (12)

502,298 
Aarti Shah
 
— (13)
 
 
Mark A. Stevens
 
4,442,067 (14)

4,442,786 
Directors and executive officers as a group (17 persons)
 
98,188,654 (15)
 
481,471 
 
98,670,125 
3.99%
5% Stockholders:
The Vanguard Group, Inc.
 204,600,119 (16)
 
 204,600,119 
8.27%
BlackRock, Inc.
 179,816,144 (17)
 
 179,816,144 
7.27%
FMR LLC
 138,693,959 (18)
 
 138,693,959 
5.61%
* Represents less than 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.
(1)
Includes (a) 60,580,404 shares of common stock held by Jen-Hsun Huang and Lori Huang, as co-trustees of the Jen-Hsun and Lori Huang Living Trust, 
u/a/d May 1, 1995, or the Huang Trust; (b) 4,948,956 shares of common stock held by J. and L. Huang Investments, L.P., of which the Huang Trust is the 
general partner; (c) 2,228,000 shares of common stock held by The Huang 2012 Irrevocable Trust, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are co-trustees; (d) 
2,969,050 shares of common stock held by The Jen-Hsun Huang 2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang is trustee; (e) 2,969,050 shares of common 
stock held by The Lori Lynn Huang 2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang’s wife is trustee; and (f) 5,007,800 shares of common stock held by The 
Huang Irrevocable Remainder Trust u/a/d 2/19/2016, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are co-trustees. By virtue of their status as co-trustees of the 
Huang Trust, The Huang 2012 Irrevocable Trust, and The Huang Irrevocable Remainder Trust, each of Mr. Huang and his wife may be deemed to have 
shared beneficial ownership of the shares referenced in (a), (b), (c) and (f), and to have shared power to vote or to direct the vote or to dispose of or 
direct the disposition of such shares.
(2)
Includes 400 shares held by son 1, 400 shares held by son 2, and 76,768 shares held by a limited liability company, the sole member of which is an 
irrevocable trust of which the trustee is an independent institution.

(3)
Includes (a) 133,280 shares of common stock held by the Ajay K Puri Revocable Trust dtd 12/10/2015, of which Mr. Puri is the trustee and of which Mr. 
Puri exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 4,636 shares of common stock held by The Puri 2019 Irrevocable Children’s Trust dtd 
12/06/2019, of which Mr. Puri is one of the trustees. Mr. Puri disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by The Puri 2019 Irrevocable Children’s 
Trust, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
(4)
Includes 162,944 shares of common stock held by the Debora C. Shoquist Revocable Living Trust dtd 6/13/2002, of which Ms. Shoquist is the trustee.
(5)
Represents shares of common stock held by the Horne Teter Family Living Trust, dated February 1, 2019, of which Mr. Teter is a co-trustee and 
exercises shared voting and investment power.
(6)
Includes (a) 685,248 shares of common stock held in a retirement trust over which Mr. Coxe exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 
3,497,136 shares of common stock held in The Coxe Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Coxe and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Coxe exercises 
shared voting and investment power. Mr. Coxe disclaims beneficial ownership on the shares held by The Coxe Revocable Trust, except to the extent of 
his pecuniary interest therein. Mr. Coxe shares pecuniary interest in shares held in his individual name pursuant to a contractual relationship. Mr. Coxe 
disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
Does not include an additional 719 shares of common stock that Mr. Coxe has deferred for future issuance.
(7)
Does not include an additional 2,848 shares of common stock that Ms. Hudson has deferred for future issuance.
(8)
Includes 866,396 shares of common stock held in the H.C. Jones Living Trust, of which Mr. Jones is trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises sole 
voting and investment power.
Does not include an additional 5,283 shares of common stock that Mr. Jones has deferred for future issuance.
(9)
Includes 13,984 shares of common stock held by the McCaffery Family Trust U/A DTD 11/07/1994 of which Mr. McCaffery is trustee.
Does not include an additional 2,848 shares of common stock that Mr. McCaffery has deferred for future issuance.
(10)
Includes (a) 1,900 shares of shares of common stock held by the 2013 Stephen C. Neal Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Neal is trustee and of which Mr. 
Neal exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 2,252 shares of common stock held by the Neal/Rhyu Revocable Trust dated 05/02/2017, of 
which Mr. Neal is a co-trustee and exercises shared voting and investment power.
Does not include an additional 11,264 shares of common stock that Mr. Neal has deferred for future issuance.
(11)
Includes 140,000 shares of common stock held by The Perry & Pena Family Trust, of which Mr. Perry and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Perry exercises shared voting and investment power.
(12)
Includes 500,000 shares of common stock held by the Rosemary & A. Brooke Seawell Revocable Trust U/A dated 1/20/2009, of which Mr. Seawell and 
his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Seawell exercises shared voting and investment power.
(13)
Does not include an additional 5,175 shares of common stock that Dr. Shah has deferred for future issuance.
(14)
Includes (a) 1,170,888 shares of common stock held by the 3rd Millennium Trust, of which Mr. Stevens and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Stevens exercises shared voting and investment power, and (b) 1,980,695 shares of common stock held by the Envy Trust u/a/d December 7, 2021, 
of which Mr. Stevens is trustee.
(15)
Includes shares owned by all directors and executive officers.
(16)
This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated February 9, 2023, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2023 by The Vanguard Group, Inc. 
reporting its beneficial ownership as of December 30, 2022. The Schedule 13G/A reports that Vanguard has shared voting power with respect to 
3,673,080 shares, sole dispositive power with respect to 194,248,256 shares and shared dispositive power with respect to 10,351,863 shares. 
Vanguard is located at 100 Vanguard Boulevard, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355.
(17)
This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated January 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on January 31, 2023 by BlackRock, Inc. reporting its 
beneficial ownership as of December 31, 2022. The Schedule 13G/A reports that BlackRock has sole voting power with respect to 161,356,024 shares 
and sole dispositive power with respect to 179,816,144 shares. BlackRock is located at 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055.
(18)
This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated February 9, 2023, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2023 by FMR LLC reporting its 
beneficial ownership as of December 30, 2022. The Schedule 13G/A reports that FMR has sole voting power with respect to 132,284,457 shares and 
sole dispositive power with respect to 138,693,959 shares. FMR is located at 245 Summer Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02210.

Proposal 2—Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
What am I voting on? A non-binding vote, known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our Fiscal 2023 NEO compensation.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter.
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: None. 
 
In accordance with Section 14A of the Exchange Act, we are asking our stockholders to vote on an advisory basis, 
commonly referred to as “say-on-pay,” to approve the Fiscal 2023 compensation paid to our NEOs as disclosed in the 
CD&A, the compensation tables and the related narrative disclosure contained in this proxy statement. This vote is 
intended to address the overall compensation of our NEOs and the philosophy, policies and practices described in this 
proxy statement, rather than any specific compensation component.
In response to our stockholders’ preference, our Board has adopted a policy of providing for annual “say-on-pay” votes. 
This advisory proposal is not binding on the Board nor us. Nevertheless, the views expressed by the stockholders, whether 
through this vote or otherwise, are important to management and the Board and, accordingly, the Board and the CC 
intend to consider the results of this vote in making determinations in the future regarding NEO compensation 
arrangements.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that our stockholders adopt the following resolution:
“RESOLVED, that the Fiscal 2023 compensation paid to the Company’s named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant 
to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, compensation tables and narrative 
discussion, is hereby APPROVED.”

Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
This CD&A describes our Fiscal 2023 executive compensation philosophy, design and process, and how our corporate 
results affected performance-based payout. Our Fiscal 2023 NEOs were:
Jen-Hsun Huang
Colette M. Kress
Ajay K. Puri
Debora Shoquist
Timothy S. Teter
President and CEO
EVP and CFO
EVP, Worldwide Field 
Operations
EVP, Operations
EVP, General Counsel 
and Secretary
Fiscal 2023 Executive Compensation Highlights
Financial Results and Review
Fiscal 2023 was a challenging year, with macroeconomic headwinds, channel inventory corrections, COVID-19 and 
product architecture transitions affecting several of our businesses. As a result, our Fiscal 2023 revenue and Non-GAAP 
Operating Income performance fell short of the CC’s pre-established goals for executive compensation. As we move into 
Fiscal 2024, we expect new product architectures to ramp, alongside new opportunities from areas such as generative AI 
and language models, NVIDIA cloud services and digitalization. TSR for the 1-year, 3-year and 5-year periods concluding 
at the end of Fiscal 2023 were (11%), 226% and 238%, respectively, representing cumulative stock price appreciation with 
dividends reinvested. 
Fiscal 2023 Revenue
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income (1)
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 TSR (2)
$27.0 billion
$9.0 billion
189%
(1) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(2) Represents TSR for purposes of the MY PSU performance goal, calculated using cumulative stock price appreciation with dividends reinvested and the 
average closing stock price for the 60 trading days preceding the start, and preceding and including the last day, of the 3-year performance period.
Fiscal 2023 Executive Compensation Program Elements, Adjustments, Achievement and Payouts 
NVIDIA’s executive compensation program in Fiscal 2023 continued to be guided by a pay for performance philosophy to 
align NEO pay with our stockholders’ interests. Approximately 96% of our CEO’s total target pay, and approximately 56% 
of our other NEOs’ total target pay, was dependent on corporate performance. Executive compensation elements were:
Base Salary
Variable Cash
Equity
CEO
NEOs other than CEO
Based on annual 
revenue
SY PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP 
Operating Income performance, vesting 
over 4 years
SY PSUs based on annual Non-GAAP 
Operating Income performance, vesting 
over 4 years
MY PSUs based on 3-year TSR relative 
to the S&P 500, vesting over 3 years
MY PSUs based on 3-year TSR relative 
to the S&P 500, vesting over 3 years
RSUs vesting over 4 years
Target Pay Adjustments
Increased Performance Goals
No changes to base salary or variable cash
Threshold goals for Revenue and Non-GAAP Operating 
Income each set above record-level Fiscal 2022 actual 
performance
Increased target equity value for each NEO by $2 
million, maintaining the same proportions as Fiscal 
2022 across SY PSUs, MY PSUs and RSUs
Performance Achievement and Payouts
Fiscal 2023 
revenue fell 
short of 
Threshold goal
Variable 
Cash Plan 
payout
Fiscal 2023 NonGAAP Operating 
Income fell short 
of Threshold goal
No SY 
PSUs 
eligible to 
vest
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 
3-year relative TSR at 
99th percentile, 
exceeding Stretch 
Operating Plan goal
Maximum MY 
PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 
eligible to vest

Our Compensation Philosophy and Practices
NVIDIA is building a one-of-a-kind company that invents the future, builds amazing technologies, and strives to achieve 
the highest level of craft. To achieve this vision, we must attract and retain a high-caliber executive team while balancing 
our stockholders’ interests. While our CC considers numerous factors in making executive pay decisions, our 
compensation program is guided by the following philosophies:
Pay for Performance: emphasize at-risk and performance-based cash and equity for NEOs based on multiple 
corporate metrics
Provide Competitive Pay: NEO target compensation should be competitive with our peers, reflect job impact, 
scope, and responsibilities, and be structured to attract and retain talent
Stockholder Alignment: align NEO pay with stockholders’ long-term interests and adjust appropriately for 
feedback from our annual stockholder engagement efforts and “say-on-pay” vote
Simplicity and Transparency: design a compensation program with simple, objective metrics that are reported 
publicly
In this CD&A, total target pay refers to (i) an NEO’s annual base salary, (ii) the potential payout under our Variable Cash 
Plan, assuming the Company achieves associated performance goals at a Base Operating Plan level, and (iii) the value of 
the equity opportunities granted during the year that the CC intended to deliver, assuming the Company achieves 
associated performance goals at a Base Operating Plan or Target level.
Our executive compensation program adheres to the following practices: 
What We Do
What We Don’t Do
üEmphasize at-risk, performance-based compensation, 
with simple and objective goals for each such component 
of pay
üInclude multi-year PSU awards
üUse annual and 3-year performance targets to 
determine PSU awards earned
üRequire NEOs to provide continuous service for 4 years 
to fully vest in SY PSU and RSU awards
üEvaluate our program annually based on feedback from 
stockholder engagement efforts and make adjustments 
when appropriate
üMinimize excessive risk-taking
üCap performance-based variable cash and PSU payouts
üRetain an independent compensation consultant 
reporting directly to the CC
üRequire NEOs to maintain meaningful stock ownership
üMaintain a clawback policy for performance-based 
compensation
X Enter into agreements with NEOs providing for specific 
terms of employment or severance benefits
X Give our executive officers special change-in-control 
benefits
X Provide automatic equity vesting upon a change-incontrol (except for the provisions in our equity plans that 
apply to all employees if an acquiring company does not 
assume or substitute our outstanding stock awards)
X Give NEOs supplemental retirement benefits
X Provide tax gross-ups
X Reprice stock options without stockholder approval
X Pay dividends or the equivalent on unearned or 
unvested equity
X Permit executive officers, employees or directors to 
hedge their ownership of NVIDIA stock or to pledge 
NVIDIA stock as collateral for a loan
How We Determine Executive Compensation
Our CC’s oversight and decision-making relating to our Fiscal 2023 executive compensation program is a multi-year 
process:
Dec 2021 - 
Jan 2022
Dec 2021
Mar 2022
Mar 2023
May 2023
Mar 2025
Members of 
management and 
the Board, 
including our 
Lead Director and 
a CC member, 
engaged in 
stockholder 
outreach
CC determined 
peer companies
CC considered 
stockholder 
feedback and 
peer companies 
in determining 
performance 
goals and 
compensation
CC certified 
achievement and 
payouts for Fiscal 
2023 Variable 
Cash Plan, SY 
PSUs granted in 
Fiscal 2023 and 
MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021
Completed 
compensation 
risk assessment; 
published 
executive 
compensation 
program details 
in proxy 
statement
CC certifies 
achievement 
and payouts 
for MY PSUs 
granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Roles of the CC, Compensation Consultant and Management
The roles of our CC; our independent compensation consultant, Exequity, which reports directly to our CC; and 
management, including our CEO, CFO, and Human Resources and Legal departments, in setting our Fiscal 2023 NEO 
compensation program are summarized below.

During Fiscal 2023, our CC continued to use Exequity for its experience working with our CC and with compensation 
committees at other technology companies. Our CC analyzed whether Exequity’s role raised any conflict of interests, 
taking into consideration the following: 
Exequity does not provide any services directly to NVIDIA (although we pay Exequity on the CC’s behalf);
The percentage of Exequity’s total revenue resulting from fees paid by us on the CC’s behalf;
Exequity’s conflict of interest policies and procedures;
Any business or personal relationship between Exequity and an NEO, or between Exequity’s individual 
compensation advisors and an NEO or any member of our CC; and 
Any NVIDIA stock owned by Exequity or its individual compensation advisors
After considering these factors, our CC determined that Exequity’s work did not create any conflict of interests.
Our CC reviews and approves the compensation of all of our NEOs, and solicits the input of Mr. Huang and Exequity for its 
NEO compensation decisions. Specifically, at the CC’s direction, Exequity and management recommended a peer group 
for our Fiscal 2023 executive pay program, which was approved by the CC. Management gathered peer data from the 
Radford Global Technology Survey, or the Radford Survey, which was considered by Exequity in its analysis of Mr. Huang’s 
compensation, and by Mr. Huang in his recommendations on our other NEOs’ compensation for Fiscal 2023. The CC 
considered Exequity’s advice, Mr. Huang’s recommendations, and management’s proposed Fiscal 2023 performance goals 
prior to making its final and sole decision on all Fiscal 2023 NEO compensation. Ultimately, the CC certified performancebased compensation payouts for the applicable performance periods that concluded at the end of Fiscal 2023 relating to 
the Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2023 and MY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2021. Exequity also 
advised the CC on the Fiscal 2023 compensation risk analysis prepared by management. 
Peer Companies and Market Compensation Data
We believe our peers should be companies that (1) compete with us for executive talent; (2) have established businesses, 
market presence, and complexity similar to us; and (3) are generally of similar size to us, as measured by revenue and/or 
market capitalization at roughly 0.5-3.5x of us. After consultation with management, the CC determined that the existing 
peer group generally continued to be appropriate for Fiscal 2023, except for removing Tesla, Inc., as their compensation 
model differs significantly from ours, and adding Netflix, Inc. and Visa Inc. due to their revenues and market 
capitalizations being similar to ours: 
Fiscal 2023 Peer Group
Adobe Inc. (ADBE)
International Business 
Machines Corporation (IBM)
Oracle Corporation (ORCL)
SAP SE (SAP)
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 
(AMD)
Intel Corporation (INTC)
PayPal Holdings, Inc. (PYPL)
Texas Instruments 
Incorporated (TXN)
Broadcom Limited (AVGO)
Intuit Inc. (INTU)
Qualcomm Incorporated 
(QCOM)
Visa Inc. (V)
Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO)
Netflix, Inc. (NFLX)
Salesforce, Inc. (CRM)
VMware, Inc. (VMW)
Our CC chose each member of the peer group after considering a combination of the factors described above. As a 
result, while some of our compensation peer group members may be smaller or larger than us in terms of market 
capitalization or revenue, the CC has determined that such companies were still within a reasonable range of sizes 
compared to us and should be included in the peer group because we compete with them for talent and because they 
have established businesses with complexity similar to ours. 
In determining our Fiscal 2023 peer group, the CC reviewed our trailing 12-month revenue (as previously reported up 
through our third quarter results for Fiscal 2022) and market capitalization as of November 2021, compared to the 
median of our peer group companies, which was as follows:
Revenue
Market Capitalization
Fiscal 2023 Peer Group Median
$27.2 billion
$218.5 billion
NVIDIA
$24.3 billion
$781.8 billion
Our CC reviews market practices and compensation data from the Radford Survey for peer companies’ comparably 
situated executives when determining the components of our executive compensation program, as well as total 
compensation. We compare the total compensation opportunity for our NEOs and similarly situated executives at the 
25th, 50th and 75th percentiles of peer company data where available, and the CC considers the factors below in 
determining NEO compensation opportunities.

Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation
In addition to peer data, our CC considers the following factors in making executive compensation decisions. The weight 
given to each factor may differ among NEOs and each component of pay, and is subject to the CC’s sole discretion.
ü The need to attract and retain talent in a highly 
competitive industry
ü Stockholder feedback regarding our executive pay
ü The simplicity of the overall program and the 
transparency of the performance metrics
ü An NEO’s past performance and anticipated future 
contributions
ü Our financial performance and forecasted results
ü The need for NEOs to address new business 
challenges
ü Changes in the scale and complexity of our business
ü Each NEO’s current total compensation
ü Each NEO’s unvested equity
ü Internal pay equity relative to similarly situated 
executives and the scope and complexity of the 
department(s) or function(s) the NEO manages 
ü Our CEO’s recommendations for the other NEOs, 
including his understanding of each NEO’s performance, 
capabilities, contributions
ü Our CC’s independent judgment
ü Our philosophy that an NEO’s total compensation 
opportunity and percentage of at-risk pay should increase 
with responsibility
ü The total compensation cost and stockholder dilution, 
including from executive compensation, to maintain a 
responsible cost structure for our compensation 
programs (1)
(1) See Note 4, Stock-Based Compensation of our Form 10-K consolidated financial statements for a discussion of stock-based compensation cost.
Components of Pay
Taking into account (i) the Company’s Fiscal 2023 outlook at the time of determining executive compensation, (ii) 
stockholder feedback from our annual outreach efforts, and (iii) strong Fiscal 2022 say-on-pay approval, the CC 
maintained the same elements for our executive pay program for Fiscal 2023, with some adjustments to increase the 
proportion of at-risk pay. The primary components of NVIDIA’s Fiscal 2023 executive compensation program, which are 
granted or determined annually in March, are summarized below: 
Fixed 
Compensation
At-Risk Compensation
Base Salary
Variable Cash
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
RSUs (1)
Form
Cash
Cash
Equity
Equity
Equity
Who 
Receives
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs
NEOs except our 
CEO
Performance 
Measure
N/A
Revenue 
(determines 
cash payout)
Non-GAAP Operating Income 
(determines number of shares 
eligible to vest)
TSR relative to the S&P 500 
(determines number of shares 
eligible to vest)
N/A
Performance 
Period
N/A
1 year
1 year
3 years
N/A
Vesting 
Period
N/A
N/A
4 years from grant
3 years from grant
4 years from grant
Vesting 
Terms
N/A
N/A
If at least Threshold achieved, 
25% on approximately the 1-year 
anniversary of the grant date; 
6.25% quarterly thereafter
If at least Threshold achieved, 
100% on approximately the 3-year 
anniversary of the grant date
6.25% vests 
quarterly from the 
grant date (2)
Timeframe 
Emphasized
Annual
Annual
Long-term
Long-term
Long-term
Purpose
Compensate 
for expected 
day-to-day 
performance
Reward for 
annual 
corporate 
financial 
performance
Align with stockholder interests 
by linking NEO pay to annual 
operational performance
Align with long-term stockholder 
interests by linking NEO pay to 
multi-year relative shareholder 
return
Align with 
stockholder 
interests by linking 
NEO pay to stock 
price performance
Maximum 
Amount That 
Can Be 
Earned
N/A
200% of target 
opportunity 
under our 
Variable Cash 
Plan
150% of Mr. Huang’s SY PSU 
target opportunity and 200% of 
our other NEOs’ respective SY 
PSU target opportunity
Ultimate value delivered depends 
on stock price on date earned 
and shares vest
150% of Mr. Huang’s MY PSU 
target opportunity and 200% of 
our other NEOs’ respective MY 
PSU target opportunity
Ultimate value delivered depends 
on stock price on date earned and 
shares vest
100% of grant
Ultimate value 
delivered depends 
on stock price on 
date shares vest
(1) Our CC considers RSUs to be at-risk pay because the realized value depends on our stock price, a financial performance measure.
(2) Reflects vesting schedule for annual performance RSU grants. New hire RSU grants vest as to 25% on approximately the 1-year anniversary of the grant 
date, and 6.25% quarterly thereafter.

(3) Based on total target pay as approved by the CC, consisting of annual base salary, and, assuming the Company achieves Base Operating Plan or Target 
level performance goals, target payout opportunity under our Variable Cash Plan, and target equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver.
We provide our NEOs with insurance benefits and eligibility to participate in our ESPP and 401(k) plan on the same basis 
as our other employees. We may also provide perquisites to our NEOs from time to time. For more information about the 
other compensation and benefits we provide to our NEOs, including in Fiscal 2023, see the section below titled Other 
Compensation and Benefits.
Compensation Actions and Achievements
Stockholder Outreach and Feedback
We value stockholder feedback and conduct an annual stockholder outreach program. During the Fall of 2021, in 
preparing for Fiscal 2023 compensation decisions, we contacted our top institutional holders who held approximately 1% 
or more of our stock, with an aggregate ownership of approximately 32% of our common stock outstanding. Members of 
management and the Board, including our Lead Director and a member of our CC, ultimately discussed executive 
compensation with representatives of stockholders holding an aggregate of approximately 18% of our common stock. 
Our stockholders generally provided positive feedback on our pay for performance alignment, and some inquired whether 
we would consider incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance metrics into compensation programs. 
After considering their feedback and the say-on-pay approval rate of 93% of our NEOs’ Fiscal 2022 compensation, our CC 
determined to maintain the same elements and metrics for our Fiscal 2023 NEO pay program, but (i) increased the target 
equity value for each NEO by $2 million, which increased the proportion of “at-risk” target pay, and (ii) set the Threshold 
performance goals for revenue and Non-GAAP Operating Income above record-level Fiscal 2022 results, both of which 
further aligned pay with performance, as described below. Our CC believes that continuing to structure the performancebased components of our executive pay program solely around NVIDIA’s corporate financial performance goals 
appropriately aligns the motivation of management with the interests of our stockholders. 
In the Fall of 2022, members of management and the Board, including our Lead Director and a member of our CC, again 
engaged in stockholder outreach. The CC considered the feedback from these meetings in making decisions regarding 
the current Fiscal 2024 executive compensation program.
Total Target Compensation Approach
In evaluating Fiscal 2023 compensation, our CC reviewed each NEO’s total target pay opportunity and distribution across 
different pay elements. Our CC compared Mr. Huang’s base salary, target variable cash opportunity, target equity 
opportunity, and total target pay against chief executives of our peer companies. For our other NEOs, their respective 
total target pay was reviewed by Mr. Huang against similarly situated executives of our peer companies, where available. 
This market reference, along with his evaluation of internal pay equity, individual performance, level of unvested equity 
and increasing complexity of our executives’ roles, informed Mr. Huang’s recommendations of the other NEOs’ 
compensation to the CC. The CC also considered the factors discussed above in Factors Used in Determining Executive 
Compensation and the CC’s compensation objectives for Fiscal 2023. Our CC did not use a single formula or assign a 
specific weight to any one factor in determining each NEO’s target pay. Instead, our CC used its business judgment and 

experience to set total target compensation, mix of cash and equity, and fixed and at-risk pay opportunities for each NEO 
to achieve our program’s objectives. When the CC set each element of pay for an NEO, it considered the context of the 
levels of the other pay elements, and the resulting total target pay for such NEO. The CC established amounts and a 
structure that it believed would allow our NEOs to realize above-market value from equity awards and variable cash 
incentives only upon exceptional corporate performance. 
Continued Emphasis on Long-Term, At-Risk, Performance-Based Equity Awards
For Fiscal 2023, the CC decided that the largest portion of NEOs’ total target pay would remain in the form of at-risk 
equity with performance-based vesting. The CC believes an emphasis on long-term, at-risk opportunities drives results 
and increases NEO and stockholder alignment, while providing sufficient annual cash compensation to be competitive 
and retain our NEOs. The PSUs and RSUs provide long-term incentives and retention benefits because our NEOs must 
achieve, for PSUs, the predetermined performance goal and, for both PSUs and RSUs, remain with us for a longer term (3 
years for MY PSUs and 4 years for SY PSUs and RSUs) to fully vest in the awards.
The CC concluded that, given Mr. Huang’s position as CEO, 100% of his equity grants should be at-risk and performancebased, tightly aligning his interests with stockholders. Consistent with its practice last year, the CC granted Mr. Huang’s 
target equity opportunity 100% in the form of SY PSUs (which value is aligned with our annual Non-GAAP Operating 
Income performance) and MY PSUs (which value is aligned with our 3-year relative stock price performance), evenly split 
between both forms of PSUs to emphasize both shorter-term and longer-term performance. For each of our other NEOs, 
the CC, after considering Mr. Huang’s recommendations, provided 40% of the target equity opportunity in the form of 
RSUs and 60% of the target equity opportunity in the form of PSUs. The CC determined this mix provided an appropriate 
balance, by placing a greater emphasis on awards contingent upon achievement of performance goals while still providing 
a meaningful amount of time-vesting RSUs to encourage retention. 
Setting Executive Compensation Values
For Fiscal 2023, the CC determined that increases to each NEO’s total target pay were appropriate due to the greater 
complexity of the Company and the increased scope of their roles and responsibilities within a larger organization.
Specifically, the CC decided to increase Mr. Huang’s total target pay by $2 million, representing an increase of 
approximately 9% from Fiscal 2022 total target pay, to more closely align his compensation to the median of peer 
company chief executive officers. This increase was equally distributed across SY PSUs and MY PSUs to reinforce the 
CC’s emphasis on at-risk, performance-based awards with a long-term focus.
In recognition of our other NEOs’ growing responsibilities within the Company, the CC similarly adjusted each of their 
target equity opportunities by $2 million, representing an average increase of approximately 22% from Fiscal 2022 total 
target pay, to maintain internal pay equity with our NEOs. This increase was distributed across RSUs, SY PSUs and MY 
PSUs to maintain the proportional weighting of 40%, 55% and 5%, respectively. This distribution reinforced the CC’s goal 
to balance at-risk, performance-based awards with a long-term focus.
Determining Equity Award Amounts
To determine actual shares of RSUs and target numbers of SY PSUs and MY PSUs awarded to our NEOs, the CC divided 
the target compensation values they had set, as described above, by the 30-calendar day trailing average closing price of 
our common stock ending on the last day of the calendar month prior to the date of grant, which was used instead of the 
stock price on the date of grant to provide a value less susceptible to possible volatility in the market. The CC 
understands that using a historical average stock price can result in the ultimate grant date value of an award as required 
to be reported in the Summary Compensation Table under ASC 718 being different than the target equity opportunity 
value. The CC considered various approaches to granting awards and determined the process described above is 
appropriate at this time.
The target number of SY PSUs would be eligible to vest upon the Company’s achievement of Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP 
Operating Income at the Base Operating Plan level. If the Company achieved Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income at 
the Stretch Operating Plan level or more, the maximum number of SY PSUs would be eligible to vest, capped at 150% of 
Mr. Huang’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’ respective, SY PSU target opportunities. If the Company achieved Fiscal 2023 
Non-GAAP Operating Income at the Threshold level, the minimum number of SY PSUs would be eligible to vest, equivalent 
to 50% of our NEOs’ respective SY PSU target opportunities. 
The target number of MY PSUs would be eligible to vest upon the Company’s achievement of TSR relative to the S&P 500 
from the start of Fiscal 2021 to the end of Fiscal 2023, or the 3-Year Relative TSR, at Target level. If the Company 
achieved 3-Year Relative TSR at Stretch level or more, the maximum number of MY PSUs would be eligible to vest, capped 
at 150% of Mr. Huang’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’ respective, MY PSU target opportunities. If the Company achieved 
3-Year Relative TSR at Threshold level, the minimum number of MY PSUs would be eligible to vest, equivalent to 25% of 
our NEOs’ respective MY PSU target opportunities.
No PSUs would be eligible to vest if the applicable Threshold performance level was not achieved. Any PSUs determined 
to be unearned would be cancelled.

Performance Metrics and Goals for Executive Compensation
Based on the Fiscal 2023 plan as approved by the Board, the CC set performance metrics and goals for NEO pay, as set 
forth below:
PERFORMANCE METRICS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Metric
Revenue
Non-GAAP Operating Income
TSR relative to the S&P 500
Timeframe
1 year
1 year
3 years
CC’s Rationale for Metric
Drives value, contributes to 
Company’s long-term success
Focuses on growth in new and 
existing markets
Distinct, separate metric from 
Non-GAAP Operating Income
Drives value, contributes to 
Company’s long-term success
Reflects our annual revenue 
generation and effective operating 
expense management
Distinct, separate metric from 
revenue
Aligns directly with long-term 
shareholder value creation
Provides comparison of our stock 
price performance, including 
dividends, against a capital market 
index in which we compete
Relative performance goal 
accounts for macroeconomic 
factors impacting the market
PERFORMANCE GOALS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs
Fiscal 2023 
Revenue
Payout as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity (1)
Fiscal 2023 
Non-GAAP 
Operating 
Income (2)
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity (1)
Fiscal 2021 to 

3-Year Relative 
TSR (3)
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity (1)
Threshold
$29.6 billion
50%
$13.2 billion
50%
25th percentile
25%
Base Operating Plan (Target 
for MY PSUs)
$33.5 billion
100%
$15.8 billion
100%
50th percentile
100%
Stretch Operating Plan 
(Stretch for MY PSUs)
$38.0 billion
200%
$18.3 billion
CEO 150%; 
Other NEOs 
200%
75th percentile
CEO 150%; Other 
NEOs 200%
(1) For achievement between Threshold and Base Operating Plan (or Target for MY PSUs), or alternatively between Base Operating Plan (or Target for MY 
PSUs) and Stretch Operating Plan (or Stretch for MY PSUs), payouts would be determined using straight-line interpolation. Achievement less than 
Threshold would result in no payout, and exceeding Stretch Operating Plan (or Stretch for MY PSUs) would result in the capped maximum payout.
(2) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(3) MY PSUs covering the Fiscal 2021 to 2023 performance period were granted in Fiscal 2021. MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2023 cover the Fiscal 2023 to 
2025 performance period and consist of the same performance goal structure and payout opportunities.
Each of the performance goal levels as described above were set by the CC with the following objectives: 
Threshold was uncertain, but attainable and high enough to create value; represented an appropriately 
decelerated payout for performance below Base Operating Plan (or Target for MY PSUs)
Base Operating Plan (or Target for MY PSUs) was uncertain but attainable with significant effort and execution 
success; included budgeted investments in future businesses and revenue growth (and for PSUs, gross margin 
growth) considering macroeconomic conditions and reasonable but challenging growth estimates for ongoing 
and new businesses
Stretch Operating Plan (or Stretch for MY PSUs) required exceptional achievement; only possible with strong 
market factors and a very high level of management execution and corporate performance
Fiscal 2023 Performance Achievement
In March 2022, when the CC made their decisions regarding Fiscal 2023 executive compensation, the CC intended for the 
performance goals to be rigorous and uncertain. As a result, the respective Base Operating Plan level goals for Fiscal 
2023 revenue and Non-GAAP Operating Income were set significantly higher than the Fiscal 2022 counterpart goals, as 
well as record-level Fiscal 2022 actual performance.
Due to the impacts of macroeconomic and market headwinds on our business, Fiscal 2023 revenue and Non-GAAP 
Operating Income fell short of their respective Threshold performance goals.

In March 2023, the CC certified the Company’s performance achievement with the following payouts:
PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENT AND PAYOUTS
Variable Cash Plan
SY PSUs
MY PSUs (1)
Performance 
Achievement for Period 
Ended Fiscal 2023
$27.0 billion revenue (2)
$9.0 billion Non-GAAP 
Operating Income (2) (3)
3-year TSR of 189% (2)
99th percentile relative to 
S&P 500
Payout as % of Target 
Opportunity
CEO 150%; 
Other NEOs 200% (4)
(1) Represents performance achievement and payout of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021, with a performance period measured from the start of Fiscal 2021 
to the end of Fiscal 2023.
(2) Revenue is GAAP revenue, as the Company reports in its respective earnings materials. Non-GAAP Operating Income is GAAP operating income as the 
Company reports in its respective earnings materials, excluding stock-based compensation expense, acquisition termination cost, acquisition-related 
costs, restructuring costs, IP-related costs, legal settlement costs, contributions and other costs. Consistent with prior years, 3-year TSR for purposes of 
the MY PSUs represents cumulative stock price appreciation, with dividends reinvested, and is measured based on the average closing stock price for the 
60 trading days preceding the start, and preceding and including the last day, of the 3-year performance period. This averaging period mitigates the 
impact of one-day or short-term stock price fluctuations at the beginning or end of the performance period.
(3) See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP results.
(4) 100% of the eligible MY PSUs vested on March 15, 2023.
The following charts illustrate how the Fiscal 2023 revenue and Non-GAAP Operating Income performance goals and 
achievement compared to their Fiscal 2022 counterparts.

(1) A maximum payout of 200% of Fiscal 2022 target opportunity was earned by our NEOs other than our CEO; our CEO earned a maximum payout 
of 150% of his Fiscal 2022 target opportunity.
For purposes of the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020, achieving 3-year TSR relative to the S&P 500 at:
The Threshold level of 25th percentile = 25% of each NEO’s target number of MY PSUs becoming eligible to vest
The Target level of 50th percentile = 100% of each NEO’s target number of MY PSUs becoming eligible to vest
The Stretch level of 75th percentile = 150% of our CEO’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’, respective target number 
of MY PSUs becoming eligible to vest
For the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021, NVIDIA’s Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-year TSR of 189% placed the Company in the 
99th percentile of the S&P 500. As a result of the Company achieving Stretch performance, the maximum number of our 
NEOs’ MY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2021 — that is, 150% of our CEO’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’, respective target 
MY PSU opportunities — became eligible to vest. 
For the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2020, NVIDIA’s Fiscal 2020 to 2022 3-year TSR of 626% placed the Company in the 
100th percentile of the S&P 500. As a result of the Company achieving Stretch performance, the maximum number of 
our NEOs’ MY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2020 — that is, 150% of our CEO’s, and 200% of our other NEOs’, respective 
target MY PSU opportunities — became eligible to vest.
Achievement of goals for MY PSUs granted during Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2023 will be determined after the applicable 
performance periods conclude in January 2024 and January 2025, respectively.

Target Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions and Performance-Based Payouts
The CC’s target Fiscal 2023 compensation actions are summarized below for each NEO, reflecting the target value of the 
variable cash and equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver, as well as the variable cash earned and PSUs which 
became eligible to vest. The performance for MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2023 will be determined after the end of Fiscal 
2025. 
The CC considered the factors set forth in Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation above to make Fiscal 
2023 changes to and set total target pay opportunity for each NEO, which are described in Compensation Actions and 
Achievements - Setting Executive Compensation Values above.
Jen-Hsun Huang
President & CEO
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2023 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
1,000,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Variable Cash
 
2,000,000 
Target pay unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023 revenue fell short of Threshold performance goal, 
resulting in no payout under Variable Cash Plan
 Cash
 
3,000,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
SY PSUs
 
10,999,879 
Up $1 million, or 10%, from Fiscal 2022; 
44,675 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income fell short of 
Threshold performance goal, resulting in no SY PSUs 
becoming eligible to vest
MY PSUs
 
10,999,879 
Up $1 million, or 10%, from Fiscal 2022; 
44,675 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 achieved at Stretch, resulting in 150% of 
target opportunity (116,176 shares) becoming eligible to vest
 Equity
 
21,999,758 
Up $2 million, or 10%, from Fiscal 2022 target
Total
 
24,999,758 
Up 9% from Fiscal 2022 target
Colette M. Kress
EVP & CFO
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2023 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
900,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Variable Cash
 
300,000 
Target pay unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023 revenue fell short of Threshold performance goal, 
resulting in no payout under Variable Cash Plan
 Cash
 
1,200,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
SY PSUs
 
5,939,811 
Up $1.1 million, or 23%, from Fiscal 2022; 
24,124 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income fell short of 
Threshold performance goal, resulting in no SY PSUs 
becoming eligible to vest
MY PSUs
 
539,960 
Up $100 thousand, or 23%, from Fiscal 2022; 
2,193 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 achieved at Stretch, resulting in 200% of 
target opportunity (10,536 shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
4,319,930 
Up $0.8 million, or 23%, from Fiscal 2022; 
17,545 shares granted in Fiscal 2023
 Equity
 
10,799,701 
Up $2 million, or 23%, from Fiscal 2022 target
Total
 
11,999,701 
Up 20% from Fiscal 2022 target
Ajay K. Puri
EVP, Worldwide Field 
Operations
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2023 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
950,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Variable Cash
 
650,000 
Target pay unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023 revenue fell short of Threshold performance goal, 
resulting in no payout under Variable Cash Plan
 Cash
 
1,600,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
SY PSUs
 
5,719,937 
Up $1.1 million, or 24%, from Fiscal 2022; 
23,231 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income fell short of 
Threshold performance goal, resulting in no SY PSUs 
becoming eligible to vest
MY PSUs
 
519,770 
Up $100 thousand, or 24%, from Fiscal 2022; 
2,111 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 achieved at Stretch, resulting in 200% of 
target opportunity (9,920 shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
4,159,887 
Up $0.8 million, or 24%, from Fiscal 2022; 
16,895 shares granted in Fiscal 2023
 Equity
 
10,399,594 
Up $2 million, or 24%, from Fiscal 2022 target
Total
 
11,999,594 
Up 20% from Fiscal 2022 target

Debora Shoquist
EVP, Operations
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2023 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
850,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Variable Cash
 
250,000 
Target pay unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023 revenue fell short of Threshold performance goal, 
resulting in no payout under Variable Cash Plan
 Cash
 
1,100,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
SY PSUs
 
4,894,854 
Up $1.1 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
19,880 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income fell short of 
Threshold performance goal, resulting in no SY PSUs 
becoming eligible to vest
MY PSUs
 
444,920 
Up $100 thousand, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
1,807 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 achieved at Stretch, resulting in 200% of 
target opportunity (9,144 shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
3,559,849 
Up $0.8 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
14,458 shares granted in Fiscal 2023
 Equity
 
8,899,623 
Up $2 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022 target
Total
 
9,999,623 
Up 25% from Fiscal 2022 target
Timothy S. Teter
EVP, General Counsel 
& Secretary
Target Pay ($)
Fiscal 2023 Compensation Actions
Fiscal 2023 Performance-Based Payouts
Base Salary
 
850,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Variable Cash
 
250,000 
Target pay unchanged from Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023 revenue fell short of Threshold performance goal, 
resulting in no payout under Variable Cash Plan
 Cash
 
1,100,000 
Unchanged from Fiscal 2022
SY PSUs
 
4,894,854 
Up $1.1 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
19,880 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2023 Non-GAAP Operating Income fell short of 
Threshold performance goal, resulting in no SY PSUs 
becoming eligible to vest
MY PSUs
 
444,920 
Up $100 thousand, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
1,807 shares target opportunity granted in 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2021 to 2023 3-Year Relative TSR for MY PSUs granted 
in Fiscal 2021 achieved at Stretch, resulting in 200% of 
target opportunity (6,048 shares) becoming eligible to vest
RSUs
 
3,559,849 
Up $0.8 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022; 
14,458 shares granted in Fiscal 2023
 Equity
 
8,899,623 
Up $2 million, or 29%, from Fiscal 2022 target
Total
 
9,999,623 
Up 25% from Fiscal 2022 target
Additional Executive Compensation Practices, Policies, and Procedures 
Other Compensation and Benefits
Consistent with prevalent practices among large, multinational companies, and in accordance with the executive security 
program established by our Board based on an independent third-party security assessment, NVIDIA provides our CEO 
with personal security protection. We require that authorized security personnel be present at Mr. Huang’s residence, 
and that Mr. Huang be driven to and from work, and to and from business meetings, by a security driver in a car leased by 
NVIDIA, or by an authorized car service. We also conduct ongoing third-party assessments to monitor and help determine 
Mr. Huang’s overall security needs. 
We do not consider these additional security arrangements to be a personal benefit to Mr. Huang because they arise 
from the nature of his employment responsibilities and the related costs have been incurred as required by the Board’s 
executive security program. However, they have been disclosed in compliance with SEC rules in the “All Other 
Compensation” column of the Summary Compensation Table below. In Fiscal 2023, the cost for Mr. Huang’s security 
arrangements included (i) residential security, (ii) security monitoring services, and (iii) the down payment and monthly 
expenses for a car leased by NVIDIA. 
We believe these arrangements are reasonable, necessary and in the best interests of NVIDIA and its stockholders, as 
they enable Mr. Huang to focus on his duties to the Company while ensuring that he and his family members are not 
exposed to security threats. The CC has implemented an annual process to provide oversight of the nature and cost of 
executive security measures. In evaluating potential perquisites, we consider the cost to the Company relative to the 
perceived value to our executives, as well as other corporate governance and employee relations factors.
We also provide medical, vision, dental, and accidental death and disability insurance, matches for health savings account 
contributions, as well as time off and paid holidays, for our NEOs, on the same basis as our other employees. Like other 
employees, our NEOs are eligible to participate in our ESPP, unless otherwise prohibited by the rules of the Internal 
Revenue Service, and our 401(k) plan, which included a Company match of salary deferral contributions of up to $9,000 
for each of calendar 2022 and calendar 2023. For Fiscal 2023 (which consisted of most of calendar year 2022 and a 
portion of calendar year 2023), our NEOs received the following 401(k) matches: Mr. Huang received $9,000, Ms. Kress 
received $10,500, Mr. Puri received $9,250, Ms. Shoquist received $9,000, and Mr. Teter received $10,500. We believe 
these benefits are consistent with benefits provided by companies with which we compete for executive-level talent. We 
do not provide any other perquisites or other personal benefits to our NEOs.

Equity Grant Timing Practices
The CC approves all equity award grants to our NEOs on or before the grant date. The CC’s general practice is to 
complete its annual executive compensation review and determine performance goals and target compensation for our 
NEOs, and then equity awards are granted to NEOs and become effective. This process is further described above under 
the section titled How We Determine Executive Compensation. Accordingly, annual equity awards are typically granted to 
our NEOs in March. On occasion, the CC may grant equity awards outside of our annual grant cycle for new hires, 
promotions, recognition, retention or other purposes. While the CC has discretionary authority to approve equity awards 
to our NEOs outside of the cycle described above, the CC does not have a practice or policy of granting equity awards in 
anticipation of the release of material nonpublic information and, in any event, we do not time the release of material nonpublic information in coordination with grants of equity awards in a manner that intentionally benefits our NEOs.
Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Board believes that executive officers should hold a significant equity interest in NVIDIA. Our Corporate Governance 
Policies require the CEO to hold shares of our common stock valued at six times his base salary, and our other NEOs to 
hold shares of our common stock valued at the NEO’s respective base salary. Shares that count toward the ownership 
guidelines include shares held by the NEO, shares held in trust for the NEO and his/her immediate family, and vested but 
deferred shares, but not unvested or unexercised equity awards. NEOs have up to five years from appointment to reach 
the ownership threshold. The stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align NEO interests with stockholder 
interests. Each NEO currently exceeds the stock ownership requirements. 
Compensation Recovery Policy
We have maintained a Compensation Recovery Policy for all employees since 2009. Under this policy, if we are required to 
prepare an accounting restatement to correct an accounting error on an interim or annual financial statement included in 
a report on Form 10-Q or Form 10-K due to material noncompliance with any financial reporting requirement under the 
federal securities laws, or a Restatement, and if the Board or a committee of independent directors concludes that our 
CEO, our CFO or any other employee received a variable compensation payment that would not have been payable if the 
original interim or annual financial statements had reflected the Restatement, which we refer to as the Overpayment, 
then:
Our CEO and our CFO will disgorge the net after-tax portion of the Overpayment; and
The Board or the committee of independent directors in its sole discretion may require any other employee to 
repay the Overpayment. In using its discretion, the Board or the independent committee may consider whether 
such person was involved in the preparation of our financial statements or otherwise caused the need for the 
Restatement and may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, recoup amounts by (1) requiring partial or full 
repayment by such person of any variable or incentive compensation or any gains realized on the exercise of 
stock options or on the open-market sale of vested shares, (2) canceling up to all and any outstanding equity 
awards held by such person and/or (3) adjusting the future compensation of such person. 
The SEC has recently published finalized rules implementing the clawback provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which will require further rulemaking by Nasdaq. We are monitoring the listing 
standards adopted by Nasdaq and reviewing our Compensation Recovery Policy and will make any necessary updates to 
comply with the new Nasdaq listing standards regarding clawback policies which are expected to be adopted in calendar 
year 2023.
Tax and Accounting Implications
Under Section 162(m), compensation paid to each of the Company’s “covered employees” that exceeds $1 million per 
taxable year is generally non-deductible, excluding certain performance-based compensation that qualifies for an 
exception pursuant to the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
The CC looks at a variety of factors in making its decisions and retains the flexibility to provide compensation for the 
NEOs in a manner consistent with the goals of the Company’s executive compensation program and the best interests of 
the Company and its stockholders, which may include providing for compensation that is not deductible by the Company 
due to the deduction limit under Section 162(m). The CC also retains the flexibility to modify compensation that was 
initially intended to be exempt from the deduction limit under Section 162(m) if it determines that such modifications are 
consistent with the Company’s business needs.
Our CC also considers the impact of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, and in general, our executive plans and 
programs are designed to comply with the requirements of that section to avoid the possible adverse tax consequences 
that may arise from non-compliance.
Under ASC 718, the Company is required to estimate and record an expense for each award of equity compensation over 
the vesting period of the award. We record share-based compensation expense on an ongoing basis according to ASC 
718.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
A reconciliation between our GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP Operating Income is as follows (in millions):
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2022
GAAP operating income
$4,224
$10,041
Stock-based compensation expense
2,710
2,004
Acquisition termination cost
1,353
 
Acquisition-related and other costs

Restructuring costs and other

IP-related and legal settlement costs

Contributions

Non-GAAP Operating Income
$9,040
$12,690
We believe these non-GAAP financial measures enhance stockholders’ overall understanding of our historical financial 
performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a 
substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP financial measures may be 
different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. 
Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans
Company management from Legal, Human Resources and Finance, as well as Exequity, performed an assessment of the 
Company’s compensation programs and policies for Fiscal 2023 with the oversight of the CC, as generally applicable to 
our employees to ascertain any potential material risks that may be created by our compensation programs. The 
assessment focused on programs with variability of payout and the ability of participants to directly affect payout and 
the controls over participant action and payout—specifically, the Company’s variable cash compensation, equity 
compensation, and sales incentive compensation programs. We identified the key terms of these programs, potential 
concerns regarding risk taking behavior, and specific risk mitigation features. The assessment was first presented to our 
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, our CFO and our General Counsel, and then presented to the CC.
The CC considered the findings of the assessment described above and concluded that our compensation programs, 
which are structured to recognize both short-term and long-term contributions to the Company, do not create risks 
which are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 
The CC believes that the following compensation design features guard against excessive risk-taking: 
Our compensation program encourages our employees to remain focused on both our short-term and longterm goals
We design our variable cash and PSU compensation programs for executives so that payouts are based on 
achievement of corporate performance targets, and we cap the potential award payout
We have internal controls over our financial accounting and reporting which is used to measure and determine 
the eligible compensation awards under our Variable Cash Plan and our SY PSUs
Financial plan target goals and final awards under our Variable Cash Plan and our SY PSUs are approved by the 
CC and consistent with the annual operating plan approved by the full Board each year
MY PSUs are designed with a relative goal
We have a compensation recovery policy applicable to all employees that allows NVIDIA to recover 
compensation paid in situations of fraud or material financial misconduct
The CC monitors burn rate and overhang
All executive officer equity awards have multi-year vesting
We have stock ownership guidelines that we believe are reasonable and are designed to align our executive 
officers’ interests with those of our stockholders
We enforce a “no-hedging” policy and a “no-pledging” policy involving our common stock which prevents our 
employees from insulating themselves from the effects of NVIDIA stock price performance

Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021
The following table summarizes information regarding the compensation earned by our NEOs during Fiscal 2023, 2022 
and 2021. Fiscal 2023 and 2022 were 52-week years. Fiscal 2021 was a 53-week year.
Name and Principal Position
Fiscal
Year
Salary
($)
Stock
Awards 
($) (1)
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($) (2)
All Other
Compensation
($)
Total
($)
Jen-Hsun Huang

996,832 
 
19,666,382 
 
 
693,710 (3)
 21,356,924 
President and CEO

996,216 
 
18,660,407 
 
4,000,000 
 
81,038 
 23,737,661 

 1,017,355 
 
15,279,780 
 
3,000,000 
 
19,266 
 19,316,401 
Colette M. Kress

897,149 
 
10,004,677 
 
 
15,402 (4)
 10,917,228 
Executive Vice President and CFO

896,595 
 
8,269,020 
 
600,000 
 
10,312 
 
9,775,927 

915,620 
 
6,595,691 
 
600,000 
 
9,731 
 
8,121,042 
Ajay K. Puri

946,990 
 
9,633,991 
 
 
46,717 (4)
 10,627,698 
Executive Vice President, Worldwide 
Field Operations

946,406 
 
7,892,819 
 
1,300,000 
 
33,493 
 10,172,718 

966,487 
 
6,208,052 
 
1,300,000 
 
33,388 
 
8,507,927 
Debora Shoquist

847,307 
 
8,244,465 
 
 
23,478 (4)
 
9,115,250 
Executive Vice President, Operations

846,784 
 
6,483,557 
 
500,000 
 
21,478 
 
7,851,819 

864,752 
 
5,722,904 
 
500,000 
 
21,581 
 
7,109,237 
Timothy S. Teter

847,307 
 
8,244,465 
 
 
15,402 (4)
 
9,107,174 
Executive Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary

846,784 
 
6,483,557 
 
500,000 
 
12,402 
 
7,842,743 

864,752 
 
3,783,191 
 
500,000 
 
9,921 
 
5,157,864 
(1)
Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant date 
fair value calculated in accordance with ASC 718 for the respective fiscal year for grants of RSUs, SY PSUs, and MY PSUs, as applicable. The 
assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based 
Compensation in our Form 10-K. With regard to the stock awards with performance-based vesting conditions, the reported grant date fair value 
assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base Operating Plan for SY PSUs and Target for MY PSUs, determined in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards.
Assuming Stretch Operating Plan performance for SY PSUs and Stretch performance for MY PSUs in each of Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, and a stock 
price equal to the grant date fair value of the SY PSUs and MY PSUs, the value of stock awards granted would be:
Jen-Hsun Huang
Colette M. Kress
Ajay K. Puri
Debora Shoquist
Timothy S. Teter
Fiscal 
Year
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)
SY PSU
($)
MY PSU
($)

 15,142,257 
 14,357,535 
 10,902,118 
 1,178,299 
 10,498,554 
 1,134,240 
 8,984,170 
 
970,901 
 8,984,170 
 970,901 

 13,897,074 
 14,093,536 
 
8,968,415 
 1,047,816 
 
8,559,942 
 1,000,188 
 7,031,872 
 
821,923 
 7,031,872 
 821,923 

 14,108,899 
 
8,810,497 
 
7,035,748 
 1,038,639 
 
6,621,880 
 
977,914 
 6,104,546 
 
901,416 
 4,035,208 
 596,212 
(2)
As applicable, reflects amounts earned in Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 and paid in March or April of each respective year pursuant to the respective 
Variable Cash Plan. For further information please see our CD&A above.
(3)
Reflects the cost of security arrangements, matches of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan and a health savings account, and imputed income 
from life insurance coverage. The 401(k) and health savings account contribution matches and insurance coverage are available to all eligible NVIDIA 
employees. NVIDIA does not consider Mr. Huang’s security arrangements to be a personal benefit because they arise from the nature of Mr. Huang’s 
employment responsibilities and the related costs have been incurred in accordance with a Board-established security program based on an 
independent third-party security assessment. However, these expenses are being disclosed in compliance with SEC rules. The cost of Mr. Huang’s 
security arrangements for Fiscal 2023 included (a) $565,305 for residential security, (b) $90,217 for security monitoring services, and (c) $13,483 for a 
car leased by NVIDIA; the match of 401(k) and health savings account contributions was $11,500; and imputed income from life insurance coverage 
was $13,206.
(4)
Reflects matches of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan and imputed income from life insurance coverage. These benefits are available to all 
eligible NVIDIA employees. For Fiscal 2023, the match of 401(k) contributions was $10,500 for Ms. Kress, $9,250 for Mr. Puri, $9,000 for Ms. Shoquist 
and $10,500 for Mr. Teter; and imputed income from life insurance coverage was $37,467 for Mr. Puri and $14,478 for Ms. Shoquist.

Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2023
The following table provides information regarding all grants of plan-based awards that were made to or earned by our 
NEOs during Fiscal 2023. The information in this table supplements the dollar value of stock awards set forth in the 
Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Years 2023, 2022 and 2021. The PSU and RSU awards set forth in the following 
table were made under our 2007 Plan. PSUs are eligible to vest based on performance against pre-established criteria. All 
equity awards listed are subject to service-based vesting.
Name
Grant
Date
Approval
Date
Estimated Possible Payouts Under 
Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards (1)
Estimated Future Payouts Under 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards (2)
All Other 
Stock
Awards: 
Number of 
Shares of 
Stock
or Units 
(#) (3)
Grant Date
Fair Value
of Stock
Awards ($) (4)
Type of 
Award
Threshold 
($)
Target 
($)
Maximum 
($)
Threshold 
(#)
Target 
(#)
Maximum 
(#)
Jen-Hsun 
Huang
SY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
22,338 
 44,675 
 
67,013 
 
 10,094,763 (5)
MY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
11,169 
 44,675 
 
67,013 
 
 9,571,619 
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/3/22
3/3/22
 1,000,000 
 2,000,000 
 4,000,000 
 
 
 
Colette M. 
Kress
SY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
12,062 
 24,124 
 
48,248 
 
 5,451,059 
(5)
MY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22

2,193 
 
4,386 
 
 
589,149 
RSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
 
17,545 
 3,964,468 
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/3/22
3/3/22
 
150,000 
 300,000 
 
600,000 
 
 
 
Ajay K. 
Puri
SY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
11,616 
 23,231 
 
46,462 
 
 5,249,277 
(5)
MY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22

2,111 
 
4,222 
 
 
567,120 
RSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
 
16,895 
 3,817,594 
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/3/22
3/3/22
 
325,000 
 650,000 
 1,300,000 
 
 
 
Debora 
Shoquist
SY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
9,940 
 19,880 
 
39,760 
 
 4,492,085 
(5)
MY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22

1,807 
 
3,614 
 
 
485,451 
RSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
 
14,458 
 3,266,930 
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/3/22
3/3/22
 
125,000 
 250,000 
 
500,000 
 
 
 
Timothy S. 
Teter
SY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
9,940 
 19,880 
 
39,760 
 
 4,492,085 
(5)
MY PSU
3/10/22
3/3/22

1,807 
 
3,614 
 
 
485,541 
RSU
3/10/22
3/3/22
 
 
 
14,458 
 3,266,930 
Variable 
Cash Plan
3/3/22
3/3/22
 
125,000 
 250,000 
 
500,000 
 
 
 
(1)
Represents range of awards payable under our Fiscal 2023 Variable Cash Plan.
(2)
Represents range of shares eligible to be earned with respect to PSUs.
(3)
Represents RSUs granted.
(4)
Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant date 
fair value calculated in accordance with ASC 718 for the awards. The assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under 
Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K. With regard to the stock awards with performancebased vesting conditions, the reported grant date fair value assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base Operating Plan performance for 
SY PSUs and Target performance for MY PSUs, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
(5)
Performance achievement for Fiscal 2023 fell below the Threshold goal and as a result, none of these SY PSUs were earned.

Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 29, 2023
The following table presents information regarding outstanding equity awards held by our NEOs as of January 29, 2023. 
Name
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of 
Securities
Underlying 
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
Number of 
Securities
Underlying 
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
Option
Exercise
Price ($) (1)
Option
Expiration
Date
Number of
Units of Stock
That Have
Not Vested (#)
Market Value
 of Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not
Vested ($) (2)
Equity Incentive 
Plan Awards: 
Number of 
Unearned Shares 
That Have Not 
Vested (#)
Equity Incentive 
Plan Awards: 
Market Value of 
Unearned Shares 
That Have Not
Vested ($) (2)
Jen-Hsun 
Huang
 
475,000 
 
 
4.000 
9/17/2023
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,848 
(3)
 
2,209,195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72,612 
(4)
 
14,787,434 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
116,176 
(5)
 
23,659,242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59,100 
(6)
 
12,035,715 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
105,060 
(7)
 
21,395,469 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67,013 
(8)
 
13,647,197 
Colette 
M. Kress
 
 
 
 
 
1,976 
(9)
 
402,412 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,156 
(3)
 
642,719 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,168 
(10)
 
2,681,663 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36,216 
(4)
 
7,375,388 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,536 
(5)
 
2,145,656 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,868 
(11)
 
2,824,218 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38,144 
(6)
 
7,768,026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14,256 
(12)
 
2,903,234 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,160 
(7)
 
1,254,484 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,386 
(8)
 
893,209 
Ajay K. 
Puri
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,076 
(9)
 
422,777 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,232 
(3)
 
658,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,396 
(10)
 
2,524,445 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34,080 
(4)
 
6,940,392 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,920 
(5)
 
2,020,208 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,240 
(11)
 
2,696,326 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36,408 
(6)
 
7,414,489 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,728 
(12)
 
2,795,707 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,880 
(7)
 
1,197,462 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,222 
(8)
 
859,810 
Debora 
Shoquist
 
 
 
 
 
1,376 
(9)
 
280,222 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,344 
(3)
 
477,356 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,428 
(10)
 
2,327,312 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31,424 
(4)
 
6,399,498 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,144 
(5)
 
1,862,176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,872 
(11)
 
2,214,083 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29,904 
(6)
 
6,089,950 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,748 
(12)
 
2,392,480 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,832 
(7)
 
984,037 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,614 
(8)
 
735,991 
Timothy 
S. Teter
 
 
 
 

(9)
 
188,987 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,976 
(3)
 
402,412 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7,556 
(10)
 
1,538,779 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,768 
(4)
 
4,229,403 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,048 
(5)
 
1,231,675 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,872 
(11)
 
2,214,083 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29,904 
(6)
 
6,089,950 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,748 
(12)
 
2,392,480 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,832 
(7)
 
984,037 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,614 
(8)
 
735,991 
(1)
Unless otherwise noted, represents the closing price of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the date of grant which is the exercise price per 
share of stock option grants made pursuant to our 2007 Plan. 

(2)
Calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs or PSUs that have not vested or have not been earned, as applicable, by the closing price ($203.65) of 

(3)
The RSU was earned on January 26, 2020, based on achievement of a performance goal. The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 18, 2020, 
and vested as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU was fully vested on March 15, 2023.
(4)
The RSU was earned on January 31, 2021, based on achievement of a performance goal. The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 17, 2021, 
and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU will be fully vested on March 20, 2024.
(5)
The RSU was earned on January 29, 2023, based on achievement of a performance goal. The RSU vested as to 100% of the shares on March 15, 2023.
(6)
The RSU was earned on January 30, 2022, based on achievement of a performance goal. The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares on March 16, 2022, 
and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU will be fully vested on March 19, 2025.
(7)
Represents shares that could be earned upon achievement of Stretch goals, based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from February 1, 2021 through 
January 28, 2024. If the performance goal is achieved, 100% of the shares earned will vest on March 20, 2024. If the Threshold performance goal is 
achieved, 17,508 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 772 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 736 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 604 shares will be 
earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 604 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter. If the Target performance goal is achieved, 70,040 shares will be earned by Mr. 
Huang, 3,080 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 2,940 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 2,416 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 2,416 shares 
will be earned by Mr. Teter.
(8)
Represents shares that could be earned upon achievement of Stretch goals, based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from January 31, 2022 through 
January 26, 2025. If the performance goal is achieved, 100% of the shares earned will vest on March 19, 2025. If the Threshold performance goal is 
achieved, 11,169 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 548 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 528 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 452 shares will be 
earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 452 shares will be earned by Mr. Teter. If the Target performance goal is achieved, 44,675 shares will be earned by Mr. 
Huang, 2,193 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 2,111 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri, 1,807 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist, and 1,807 shares 
will be earned by Mr. Teter.
(9)
The RSU vested as to 25% on March 18, 2020, and vested as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU was fully vested on March 15, 2023.
(10)
The RSU vested as to 25% on March 17, 2021, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 20, 2024.
(11)
The RSU vested as to 6.25% on June 16, 2021, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 19, 2025.
(12)
The RSU vested as to 6.25% on June 15, 2022, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 18, 2026.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2023
The following table shows information regarding option exercises by, and stock acquired upon vesting for, our NEOs 
during Fiscal 2023.
Name
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Exercise (#)
Value
Realized
on Exercise ($) 
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Vesting (#) (1)
Value
Realized
on Vesting ($) (2)
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
2,917,340 
 
442,805,513 
 
286,412 (3)
 
61,847,146 
Colette M. Kress
 
 
 
114,089 (4)
 
22,135,573 
Ajay K. Puri
 
 
 
110,859 (5)
 
21,524,023 
Debora Shoquist
 
 
 
91,214 (6)
 
17,650,436 
Timothy S. Teter
 
 
 
75,510 (7)
 
14,800,031 
(1)
Represents the gross number of shares acquired on vesting. Shares were withheld from these amounts to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(2)
Represents the gross number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair market value of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the 
date of vesting.
(3)
Includes an aggregate of 142,009 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(4)
Includes an aggregate of 59,730 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(5)
Includes an aggregate of 54,370 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(6)
Includes an aggregate of 44,630 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(7)
Includes an aggregate of 40,166 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements
Employment Agreements. Our executive officers are “at-will” employees and we do not have employment, severance or 
change-in-control agreements with our executive officers.
Change-in-Control Arrangements. Our 2007 Plan provides that in the event of a corporate transaction or a change-incontrol, outstanding stock awards may be assumed, continued, or substituted by the surviving corporation. If the 
surviving corporation does not assume, continue, or substitute such stock awards, then (a) with respect to any stock 
awards that are held by individuals performing services for NVIDIA immediately prior to the effective time of the 
transaction, the vesting and exercisability provisions of such stock awards will be accelerated in full and such stock 
awards will be terminated if not exercised prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in-control, 
and (b) all other outstanding stock awards will be terminated if not exercised on or prior to the effective date of the 
corporate transaction or change-in-control.

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
Upon a change-in-control or certain other corporate transactions of NVIDIA, unvested RSUs and PSUs will fully vest in 
some cases as described above under Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements—Change-in-Control 
Arrangements. The table below shows our estimates of the amount of the benefit each of our NEOs would have received 
if the unvested RSUs and PSUs held by them as of January 29, 2023 had become fully vested as a result of a change-incontrol, calculated by multiplying the number of unvested RSUs and PSUs held by the applicable NEO by the $203.65 
closing price of our common stock on January 27, 2023. 
Name
Unvested RSUs and PSUs at January 29, 2023 (#) (1)
Total Estimated Benefit ($) (1)
Jen-Hsun Huang
379,402
77,265,217
Colette M. Kress
155,449
31,657,189
Ajay K. Puri
148,402
30,222,067
Debora Shoquist
127,771
26,020,564
Timothy S. Teter
110,879
22,580,508
(1) With respect to unvested PSUs, the amounts in these columns assume performance at Base Operating Plan with respect to SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 
2023, and assume performance at Target with respect to MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021, Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2023, in accordance with SEC rules. 
The table below reflects the actual numbers of the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021 that became eligible to vest, based on our performance during the 
applicable performance period, as certified by our CC shortly after the end of Fiscal 2023. The values of the estimated and actual MY PSUs in the table 
below were calculated by multiplying the applicable number of MY PSUs held by each respective NEO and listed below, by the $203.65 closing price of 
our common stock on January 27, 2023. Based on performance during the applicable performance period, none of the SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2023 
were eligible to vest.
MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2021 - Actual Achievement (versus Target Performance)
Name
Estimated MY PSUs Granted in 
Fiscal 2021 at Target 
Performance (#)
Value of Estimated MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2021 at Target 
Performance ($)
Actual MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2021 
Eligible to Vest (#)
Value of Actual MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2021 
Eligible to Vest ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang
77,452
15,773,100
116,176
23,659,242
Colette M. Kress
5,268
1,072,828
10,536
2,145,656
Ajay K. Puri
4,960
1,010,104
9,920
2,020,208
Debora Shoquist
4,572
931,088
9,144
1,862,176
Timothy S. Teter 
3,024
615,838
6,048
1,231,675
The actual number of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2023 that will become eligible to vest will be determinable after January 28, 2024 and 
January 26, 2025, respectively, the ending dates of the applicable three-year measurement period for MY PSUs. 
Pay Ratio
We determined the ratio of: (a) the annual total compensation of our CEO, to (b) the median of the annual total 
compensation of all our employees, except for our CEO, both calculated in accordance with the requirements of Item 
402(c)(2)(x) of Regulation S-K.
We determined our median employee for purposes of the pay ratio calculation for Fiscal 2023 by using a consistently 
applied compensation measure which aggregated, for each employee employed by us on the last day of Fiscal 2022, or 
January 30, 2022: (i) target base salary as of January 30, 2022 (annualized for permanent employees who were employed 
by us for less than the entire fiscal year), (ii) variable cash earned during Fiscal 2022, and (iii) aggregate full grant date fair 
value of equity awards granted during Fiscal 2022, calculated in accordance with ASC 718 and assuming the probable 
outcome of the conditions at Base Operating Plan for performance-based awards. Compensation paid in foreign 
currencies was converted to U.S. dollars based on exchange rates in effect on January 30, 2022. 
After applying the methodology described above, we determined the identity of our median employee for Fiscal 2022. We 
concluded that because there have been no changes to our employee population or employee compensation 
arrangements since the end of Fiscal 2022 that would significantly impact our pay ratio disclosure for Fiscal 2023, we 
would use the same individual in our Fiscal 2023 pay ratio calculation.
Our median employee’s compensation for Fiscal 2023 was $228,078. Our CEO’s compensation for Fiscal 2023 was 
$21,356,924. Therefore, our Fiscal 2023 CEO to median employee pay ratio was 94:1.
This pay ratio represents our reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K 
and applicable guidance, which provide significant flexibility in how companies identify the median employee. Each 
company may use a different methodology and make different assumptions. As a result, and as explained by the SEC 
when it adopted these rules, in considering the pay ratio disclosure, stockholders should keep in mind that the rule was 
not designed to facilitate comparisons of pay ratios among different companies, even companies within the same 
industry, but rather to allow stockholders to better understand and assess each company’s compensation practices and 
pay ratio disclosures. Neither the CC nor management used our Fiscal 2023 CEO to median employee pay ratio in making 
compensation decisions.

Pay Versus Performance
NVIDIA’s executive compensation program is guided by a pay for performance philosophy and is designed to align NEO 
pay with our stockholders’ interests. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our NEOs’ total compensation is based on the 
Company’s performance under certain corporate financial metric goals, including annual revenue, annual Non-GAAP 
Operating Income, and 3-year TSR relative to the S&P 500. 
The CC’s decisions on executive compensation for Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 were made prior to the final, new SEC rules 
regarding pay versus performance, which requires disclosure of “compensation actually paid,” or CAP, for our NEOs. The 
disclosure included in this section is prescribed by Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act and does not 
necessarily align with how the Company or the CC views the link between the Company’s performance and NEO pay. In 
particular, amounts set forth below as CAP do not represent the value of compensation actually paid to or received by our 
NEOs. Instead, CAP has been calculated in accordance with the new SEC rules, which include measurement of the 
changes in the fair value of equity awards. CAP is a supplemental measure to be viewed alongside, not in replacement of, 
performance measures as an addition to the philosophy and strategy of compensation-setting discussed in greater detail 
above in CD&A.
Required Tabular Disclosure of Pay Versus Performance
The following table summarizes information regarding compensation for our NEOs, including CAP as well as certain 
financial performance metrics during Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021. Fiscal 2023 and 2022 were 52-week years. Fiscal 2021 
was a 53-week year.
Value of Initial Fixed $100 
Investment Based on (7):
Fiscal 
Year
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
CEO 
($) (1) (2)
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to CEO 
($) (1) (3)
Average 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
Non-CEO NEOs 
($) (4) (5)
Average 
Compensation 
Actually Paid to 
Non-CEO NEOs 
($) (4) (6)
Total 
Shareholder 
Return
($)
Peer Group 
Total 
Shareholder 
Return
($) (8)
Net Income 
(in millions)
($)
Non-GAAP 
Operating 
Income
(in millions)
($) (9)

21,356,924 
 
(4,118,947) 
9,941,838 
 
(1,364,661) 
326.34 
 
133.09 
 
4,368 
 
9,040 

23,737,661 
 
105,543,768 
 
8,910,802 
 
38,453,071 
 
365.66 
 
158.12 
 
9,752 
 
12,690 

19,316,401 
 
79,631,875 
 
7,224,018 
 
27,879,337 
 
207.79 
 
141.39 
 
4,332 
 
6,803 
(1) For Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, our CEO was Jen-Hsun Huang.
(2) The amounts in this column correspond with total compensation for our CEO as reported in our Summary Compensation Table above for the listed fiscal 
years.
(3) The amounts in this column, rather than representing the actual compensation paid to or received by our CEO, represent CAP calculated in accordance 
with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K during the listed fiscal years, as follows:
Reconciliation of Summary Compensation Table Total Compensation for CEO to CAP
Equity Award Adjustments
Deduct:
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Add/(Deduct):
Fiscal 
Year
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
CEO 
($)
Value of Equity 
Awards Reported 
in Summary 
Compensation 
Table
($) (a)
Year End Fair Value of 
Awards Granted 
During the Year which 
were Unvested at 
Year End
($) (b)
Year Over Year 
Change in Fair 
Value of 
Outstanding and 
Unvested Awards
($) (b)
Change in Fair Value 
of Awards Granted in 
Prior Years which 
Vested During the 
Year
($) (b)
Total Equity 
Award 
Adjustments
($) (b)
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to CEO 
($)

21,356,924 
 
(19,666,382) 
7,108,686 
 
(9,368,399) 
(3,549,776) 
(5,809,488) 
(4,118,947) 

23,737,661 
 
(18,660,407) 
45,314,829 
 
43,741,239 
 
11,410,446 
 100,466,514 
 
105,543,768 

19,316,401 
 
(15,279,780) 
44,912,609 
 
28,796,208 
 
1,886,437 
 
75,595,254 
 
79,631,875 
(a) The amounts in this column correspond with the full grant date fair value, calculated in accordance with ASC 718, of “Stock Awards” as reported in 
our Summary Compensation Table above for the listed fiscal years.
(b) The equity award adjustments were calculated in accordance with the SEC methodology for determining CAP for each year shown. The amounts in 
these columns were determined by reference to (i) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was complete as of or prior to the applicable 
year end date and for SY PSU awards, the closing price of our common stock on the applicable year end date, as reduced by the present value of 
dividends expected to be paid on the underlying shares during the requisite service period, or the closing price of our common stock on the 
applicable vesting dates, and (ii) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was not yet complete as of the applicable year end date, the fair 
value as calculated by a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the respective year end date, for the listed fiscal years.
(4) For Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, our non-CEO NEOs were Colette M. Kress, Ajay K. Puri, Debora Shoquist and Timothy S. Teter.
(5) The amounts in this column correspond with the average of the total compensation for our non-CEO NEOs as reported in our Summary Compensation 
Table above for the listed fiscal years.

(6) The amounts in this column, rather than representing the average of the actual compensation paid to or received by our non-CEO NEOs, represent 
average CAP calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K during the listed fiscal years, as follows:
Reconciliation of Average Summary Compensation Table Total Compensation for Non-CEO NEOs to CAP 
Equity Award Adjustments
Deduct:
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Add:
Add/(Deduct):
Fiscal 
Year
Average 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table Total for 
Non-CEO NEOs 
($)
Value of Equity 
Awards 
Reported in 
Summary 
Compensation 
Table
($) (a)
Year End Fair 
Value of Awards 
Granted During 
the Year which 
were Unvested 
at Year End
($) (b)
Year Over Year 
Change in Fair 
Value of 
Outstanding 
and Unvested 
Awards
($) (b)
Vesting Date 
Fair Value of 
Awards 
Granted and 
Vested 
During the 
Year
($) (b)
 Change in Fair 
Value of Awards 
Granted in Prior 
Years which 
Vested During 
the Year
($) (b)
Total Equity 
Award 
Adjustments
($) (b)
Average 
Compensation 
Actually Paid 
to Non-CEO 
NEOs
($)

9,941,838 
 
(9,031,900) 
3,014,262 
 
(2,639,741) 
469,695 
 
(3,118,815) 
(2,274,599) 
(1,364,661) 

8,910,802 
 
(7,282,238) 
18,734,157 
 
11,713,153 
 
976,553 
 
5,400,644 
 
36,824,507 
 
38,453,071 

7,224,018 
 
(5,577,460) 
18,437,076 
 
5,723,898 
 
 
2,071,805 
 
26,232,779 
 
27,879,337 
(a) The amounts in this column correspond with the average of the full grant date fair value, calculated in accordance with ASC 718, of “Stock Awards” as 
reported in our Summary Compensation Table above for the listed fiscal years.
(b) The equity award adjustments were calculated in accordance with the SEC methodology for determining CAP for each year shown. The amounts in 
these columns were determined by reference to (i) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was complete as of or prior to the applicable 
year end date, for RSU awards and for SY PSU awards, the closing price of our common stock on the applicable year end date, as reduced by the 
present value of dividends expected to be paid on the underlying shares during the requisite service period, or the closing price of our common 
stock on the applicable vesting dates, and (ii) for MY PSU awards where the performance period was not yet complete as of the applicable year end 
date, the fair value as calculated by a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the respective year end date, for the listed fiscal years.
(7) TSR for each of Fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 is cumulative, reflecting the value of a fixed $100 investment beginning with the market close on January 
24, 2020, the last trading day before our Fiscal 2021, through and including the end of the respective listed fiscal years.
(8) The Nasdaq 100 Index is the industry peer group we use for purposes of Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K. The separate peer group referenced by the CC for 
purposes of determining executive compensation is discussed above in CD&A.
(9) Our Company-Selected Measure, as required by Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K, is Non-GAAP Operating Income, which, in our assessment, represents the 
most important financial performance measure linking Fiscal 2023 NEO CAP to company performance. See Definitions for a definition of Non-GAAP 
Operating Income, and see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our CD&A for a reconciliation between GAAP operating income and nonGAAP Operating Income.
Required Tabular Disclosure of Most Important Financial Performance Measures
The following table is an unranked list of the most important financial performance measures linking Fiscal 2023 NEO 
CAP to company performance: 
Financial Measures
Revenue
Non-GAAP Operating Income
3-Year TSR relative to the S&P 500
Refer to CD&A above for a description of how each of these performance measures impacts NEO compensation.

Required Tabular Disclosure of Relationships Between CAP and Financial Performance
The following graphs illustrate how CAP for our NEOs aligns with the Company’s financial performance measures as 
detailed in the Pay Versus Performance table above for each of Fiscal 2021, 2022 and 2023, as well as between the TSRs 
of NVIDIA and the Nasdaq100 Index, reflecting the value of a fixed $100 investment beginning with the market close on 
January 24, 2020, the last trading day before our Fiscal 2021, through and including the end of the respective listed fiscal 
years.
All information provided above under the “Pay Versus Performance” heading will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing 
of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or 
after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent the Company specifically 
incorporates such information by reference.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
For Fiscal 2023, the CC consisted of Messrs. Burgess, Coxe, Dabiri, and Jones and Ms. Hudson. No member of the CC is 
an officer or employee of NVIDIA, and none of our executive officers serve as a member of the board or compensation 
committee of any entity that has one or more executive officers serving as a member of our Board or CC. 
Compensation Committee Report
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the compensation programs of NVIDIA on behalf of the 
Board of Directors. In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, the Compensation Committee reviewed and discussed with 
management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis included in this proxy statement.
In reliance on the review and discussions referred to above, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Board of 
Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for 
the year ended January 29, 2023 and in this proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
Robert K. Burgess, Tench Coxe, John O. Dabiri, Dawn Hudson and Harvey C. Jones

Proposal 3—Approval of the Frequency of Holding an Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
What am I voting on? A non-binding vote, known as “say-on-frequency,” to approve how frequently we should solicit an 
advisory vote on our NEO compensation.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter. 
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: None.
The Dodd-Frank Act and Section 14A of the Exchange Act enable our stockholders to indicate their preference regarding 
how frequently we should solicit a non-binding advisory vote on the compensation of our NEOs. Accordingly, we are 
asking stockholders to indicate whether they would prefer an advisory vote every one, two or three years. Alternatively, 
stockholders may abstain from casting a vote.
After considering the benefits and consequences of each alternative, the Board recommends that the advisory vote on 
the compensation of our NEOs be submitted to the stockholders every one year. In formulating its recommendation, the 
Board considered that an annual advisory vote on executive compensation will allow stockholders to provide direct input 
on the Company’s compensation philosophy, policies and practices every year.
Accordingly, the Board is asking stockholders to indicate their preferred voting frequency by voting for one, two or three 
years or abstaining from voting on the resolution below:
“RESOLVED, that the alternative of soliciting advisory stockholder approval of the compensation of the Company’s 
executive officers once every one, two or three years that receives a majority of votes cast for this resolution will be 
determined to be the preferred frequency with which the Company is to hold a stockholder vote to approve the 
compensation of the named executive officers.”
Because this proposal has four choices, it is possible that no choice will receive an affirmative vote of a majority of the 
shares present and entitled to vote on this matter. The Board and the CC value the opinions of the stockholders in this 
matter, and the Board intends to hold say-on-pay votes in the future in accordance with the alternative that receives the 
most stockholder support, even if that alternative does not receive the support of a majority of the shares present, in 
person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on this matter.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote for future advisory votes on the compensation program for our NEOs to occur 
every 1 YEAR.

Proposal 4—Ratification of the Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2024
What am I voting on? Ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm for 
Fiscal 2024.
Vote required for approval: A majority of the shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on 
this matter.
Effect of abstentions: Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes: Not applicable (because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes).
The AC has selected PwC, which has audited our financial statements annually since 2004, to serve as our independent 
registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 2024. Our lead audit partner at PwC will serve no more than five consecutive 
years in that role. Stockholder ratification of the AC’s selection of PwC is not required by our Bylaws. As a matter of good 
corporate governance, we are submitting the selection of PwC to our stockholders for ratification. If our stockholders do 
not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider whether or not to retain PwC. Even if the selection is ratified, the AC in its 
sole discretion may direct the appointment of a different independent registered public accounting firm at any time 
during the fiscal year if it determines that such a change would be in our best interests and those of our stockholders. 
The AC believes it is in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders to retain PwC.
We expect that a representative of PwC will attend the 2023 Meeting. The PwC representative will have an opportunity to 
make a statement at the 2023 Meeting if he or she so desires and will also be available to respond to appropriate 
stockholder questions.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered 
accounting firm for our fiscal year ending January 28, 2024.

Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The following is a summary of fees billed by PwC for Fiscal 2023 and 2022 for audit, tax and other professional services 
during each fiscal year: 
Fiscal 2023
Fiscal 2022
Audit Fees (1)
6,858,279 
6,762,002 
Audit Related Fees (2)
 
243,400 
 
491,100 
Tax Fees (3)
 
1,189,263 
 
708,680 
All Other Fees (4)
 
17,858 
 
12,900 
Total Fees
8,308,800 
7,974,682 
(1)
For the audit of our consolidated financial statements, including business combination activities during the year, the audit of our internal control over 
financial reporting, review of our quarterly financial statements and annual reports, review of SEC registration statements and related consents, review 
of SEC filings for public debt financing and related comfort letters, and fees related to statutory audits of some of our international entities.
(2)
For a review of select sustainability metrics, a system pre-implementation control assessment and other attestation services. 
(3)
For tax compliance, consulting, and tax audit defense services.
(4)
For products or services other than those referenced above, including subscription to accounting research software.
All services provided for Fiscal 2023 and 2022 described above were pre-approved by the AC or the AC Chairperson 
through the authority granted to him by the AC, which is described below. Our AC determined that the rendering of 
services other than audit services by PwC was compatible with maintaining PwC’s independence.
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures
The AC has adopted policies and procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services rendered 
by our independent registered public accounting firm. The policy generally permits pre-approvals of specified permissible 
services in the defined categories of audit services, audit-related services and tax services up to specified amounts. Preapproval may also be given as part of the AC’s approval of the scope of the engagement of our independent registered 
public accounting firm or on an individual case-by-case basis before the independent registered public accounting firm is 
engaged to provide each service. In some cases the full AC provides pre-approval for up to a year related to a particular 
defined task or scope. In other cases, the AC has delegated power to the AC Chairperson to pre-approve additional audit 
and non-audit services if the need for the service was unanticipated and approval is required prior to the next scheduled 
meeting of the AC. The AC Chairperson then communicates such pre-approval to the full AC at its next meeting. 

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
The material in this report is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by 
reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof and 
irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent specifically incorporated by 
reference therein.
The Audit Committee, or AC, oversees accounting, financial reporting, internal control over financial reporting, financial 
practices and audit activities of NVIDIA and its subsidiaries. The AC reviews the results and scope of the audit and other 
services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm and reviews financial statements and the 
accounting policies followed by NVIDIA prior to the issuance of the financial statements with both management and the 
independent registered public accounting firm.
Management is responsible for the financial reporting process, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, the system of internal control 
over financial reporting, and the procedures designed to facilitate compliance with accounting standards and applicable 
laws and regulations. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or PwC, our independent registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 
2023, was responsible for performing an independent audit of the consolidated financial statements and issuing a report 
on the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of 
January 29, 2023. PwC’s judgments as to the quality, not just the acceptability, of our accounting principles and such 
other matters are required to be disclosed to the AC under applicable standards. The AC oversees these processes. Also, 
the AC has ultimate authority and responsibility to select, evaluate and, when appropriate, terminate the independent 
registered public accounting firm. The AC approves audit fees and non-audit services provided by and fees paid to the 
independent registered public accounting firm.

evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of our system of internal controls and the operating effectiveness of 
our business processes. The AC approves an annual internal audit plan and monitors the activities and performance of our 
internal audit function throughout the year to ensure the plan objectives are carried out and met.
The AC members are not professional accountants or auditors, and their functions are not intended to duplicate or to 
certify the activities of management or the independent registered public accounting firm. The AC does not plan or 
conduct audits, determine that our financial statements are complete and accurate and in accordance with GAAP or 
assess our internal control over financial reporting. The AC relies, without additional independent verification, on the 
information provided by our management and on the representations made by management that the financial 
statements have been prepared with integrity and objectivity, and the opinion of PwC that such financial statements 
have been prepared in conformity with GAAP.
In this context, the AC reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2023 with 
management and our internal control over financial reporting with management and PwC. Specifically, the AC discussed 
with PwC the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board and the SEC. We have received from PwC the written disclosures and letter required by the applicable 
requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding PwC’s communications with the AC 
concerning independence. The AC also considered whether the provision of certain permitted non-audit services by PwC 
is compatible with PwC’s independence and discussed PwC’s independence with PwC. 
Based on the AC’s review and discussions, the AC recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated 
financial statements be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2023.
Audit Committee
Michael G. McCaffery, Mark L. Perry, A. Brooke Seawell, Aarti Shah and Mark A. Stevens

Equity Compensation Plan Information
The number of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, RSUs, and PSUs, the weighted-average 
exercise price of outstanding stock options, and the number of stock awards remaining for future issuance under each of 
our equity compensation plans as of January 29, 2023 are summarized as follows:
Plan Category
Number of securities to be 
issued upon exercise of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights
(a)
Weighted-average exercise 
price of outstanding
options, warrants
and rights ($)
(b)
Number of securities remaining 
available for future issuance under 
equity compensation plans (excluding 
securities reflected in column (a))
(c)
Equity compensation plans 
approved by security holders (1)
 
46,830,167 
 
3.79 (2)
 
389,414,978 (3)
Equity compensation plans not 
approved by security holders
 
— (4)
 
 
Total
 
46,830,167 
 
3.79 
 
389,414,978 
(1)
This row includes our 2007 Plan and our ESPP. Under our ESPP, participants are permitted to purchase our common stock at a discount on certain 
dates through payroll deductions within a pre-determined purchase period. Accordingly, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of 
outstanding rights under our ESPP as of January 29, 2023 is not determinable. 
(2)
Represents the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding stock options only.
(3)
As of January 29, 2023, (a) the number of shares that remained available for future issuance under the 2007 Plan was 159,291,774, and (b) the number 
of shares that remained available for future issuance under the ESPP was 230,123,204, of which up to 1,152,892 shares may be purchased under the 
ESPP in the current purchase period which runs until August 31, 2023, based on estimated participation and contribution rates, purchase prices based 
on the applicable offering date prices, and the $25,000 limit under Section 423(b)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)
Excludes RSUs assumed by NVIDIA in connection with mergers and acquisitions. As of January 29, 2023, a total of 835,800 shares were issuable upon 
the vesting of such RSUs. Such RSUs have no exercise price. No additional awards were or may be granted by NVIDIA under the plans pursuant to 
which such RSUs were originally granted.
During Fiscal 2023, we granted an aggregate of 24,445,273 shares under our 2007 Plan in the form of RSUs and PSUs, 
324,092 of which were granted to our NEOs, 17,256 of which were granted to our non-employee directors and 24,103,925 
of which were granted to our other employees. For this purpose, PSUs are counted in the year of grant at the maximum 
number of shares that may become eligible to vest. Also during Fiscal 2023, an aggregate of 3,031,877 shares were 
purchased under our ESPP, 900 of which were purchased by our NEOs and 3,030,977 of which were purchased by our 
other employees. Our non-employee directors are not eligible to participate in our ESPP.
Additional Information
Other Matters
The Board knows of no other matters that will be presented for consideration at the 2023 Meeting. If any other matters 
are properly brought before the 2023 Meeting, it is the intention of the persons named in the accompanying proxy to 
vote on such matters in accordance with their best judgment.
By Order of the Board of Directors
Timothy S. Teter
Secretary
May 8, 2023
A COPY OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 29, 2023 AS FILED WITH 
THE SEC IS BEING FURNISHED TO STOCKHOLDERS CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH. UPON WRITTEN REQUEST, WE WILL 
PROVIDE, WITHOUT CHARGE, AN ADDITIONAL COPY OF THE ANNUAL REPORT. STOCKHOLDERS MAY SUBMIT THEIR 
REQUESTS TO: INVESTOR RELATIONS, NVIDIA CORPORATION, 2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY, SANTA CLARA, 
CALIFORNIA 95051 OR TO SHAREHOLDERMEETING@NVIDIA.COM. WE WILL ALSO FURNISH A COPY OF ANY EXHIBIT 
TO THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K IF SPECIFICALLY REQUESTED IN WRITING.

other countries. Other company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of 
their respective companies.

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
____________________________________________________________________________________________
FORM 10-K 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2023 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Commission file number: 0-23985 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
94-3177549
(State or other jurisdiction of
(I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization)
Identification No.)
2788 San Tomas Expressway 
Santa Clara, California 95051 
(408) 486-2000 
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of principal executive offices)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class
Trading Symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which 
registered
Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share
NVDA
The Nasdaq Global Select Market
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ 
No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T 
(§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). 
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth 
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer," “accelerated filer," “smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer
Accelerated filer
Non-accelerated filer
Smaller reporting 
company
Emerging growth company
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial 
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial 
reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the 
correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the 
registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 
Yes ☐ No ☒ 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of July 29, 2022 was approximately $434.37 billion (based on the closing sales price 
of the registrant's common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on July 29, 2022). This calculation excludes 98 million shares held by directors and executive 
officers of the registrant. This calculation does not exclude shares held by such organizations whose ownership exceeds 5% of the registrant's outstanding common stock 
that have represented to the registrant that they are registered investment advisers or investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 
1940.
The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 17, 2023 was 2.47 billion.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 
14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
Page
 
PART I
 
Item 1.
Business

Item 1A.
Risk Factors

Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments

Item 2.
Properties

Item 3.
Legal Proceedings

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

PART II
 
Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities

Item 6.
[Reserved]

Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures

Item 9B.
Other Information

Item 9C.
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

PART III
 
Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Item 11.
Executive Compensation

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services

PART IV
 
Item 15.
Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

Item 16.
Form 10-K Summary

Signatures

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor 
relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social 
media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our products, our planned financial and other 
announcements and attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters and for complying 
with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD:
NVIDIA Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/nvidia)
NVIDIA Corporate Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com) 
NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/nvidia) 
NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia)
NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia)
In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube (https://www.YouTube.com/nvidia).
The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should 
monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls 
and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations 
website.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which are based on our management's beliefs and 
assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking 
statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” 
“project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time 
frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements 
expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties and other 
factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements 
represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K 
completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We 
hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially 
from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In addition, statements that “we believe” and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These 
statements are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we 
believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and 
our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially 
available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon 
these statements.
© 2023 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.

PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Our Company

focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. Fueled by 
the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU 
architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, artificial intelligence, or AI, data science, autonomous vehicles, 
or AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet applications.
The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it 
also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing 
capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential to running deep learning algorithms. This form of 
AI, in which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and 
self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered deep learning is being adopted by thousands 
of enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult with traditional coding. Some of 
the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms 
trained to understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people and products using data 
gathered about their interactions, large language models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and 
generate text and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and generative AI, which uses 
algorithms that create new content, including audio, code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they 
have been trained on. 
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to 
create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we 
address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and software stacks. The programmable nature 
of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by 
using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. The large and 
growing number of developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform 
to our customers.
Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $37 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics 
and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 
2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing. This approach 
significantly accelerates the most demanding high-performance computing, or HPC, applications in fields such as 
aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our GPUs and 
networking accelerate many of the fastest supercomputers across the world. In addition, the massively parallel compute 
architecture of our GPUs and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine learning, powering the 
era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore’s Law, 
NVIDIA accelerated computing delivers performance improvements on a pace ahead of Moore’s Law, giving the industry a 
path forward.
Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. GPUs also help underpin the 
world’s fastest growing spectator sport, eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality live 
video gaming. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the market for gaming GPUs is expanding because of 
the burgeoning population of live streamers, broadcasters, artists and creators.
Researchers and developers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating 
molecular dynamics to climate forecasting. With support for more than 2,800 applications - including 23 of the top 25 
HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising areas of discovery, from climate prediction to 
materials science and from wind tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers over 70% 
of the supercomputers on the global TOP500 list, including 23 of the top 30 systems on the Green500 list.
The world’s leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet companies use our GPUs and broader data 
center-scale accelerated computing platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of endusers, including search, recommendations, social networking, online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, 
navigation, and cloud computing. 
A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our GPUs and software to 
bring automation to the products and services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms for 
autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug 
discovery; and the financial services industry is using them for fraud detection.

Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in movies and to design buildings and products 
ranging from cell phones to commercial aircraft.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement
In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase 
Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate 
because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition 
termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.
Our Businesses
We report our business results in two segments.
The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated computing platform; networking; automotive 
AI Cockpit, autonomous driving development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle computing 
platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and 
cryptocurrency mining processors, or CMP.
The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and 
related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; 
virtual GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment 
systems; and Omniverse Enterprise software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. 
Our Markets
We specialize in markets in which our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These 
platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our 
platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and 
Automotive.
Data Center
The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data 
analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers. 
The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA 
programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, application 
frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the platform or packaged and sold separately.
For both AI and HPC applications, the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform greatly increases computer and data 
center performance and power efficiency relative to conventional CPU-only approaches. In the field of AI, NVIDIA’s 
platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep learning is a computer science approach 
where neural networks are trained to recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds 
and text - in some instances better than humans - and in turn provide predictions in production use cases. Machine 
learning is a related approach that leverages algorithms as well as data to learn how to make determinations or 
predictions. HPC, which includes scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to solve large and 
complex problems. 
We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of industries, from automating tasks such 
as consumer product and service recommendations, to chatbots for the automation of or assistance with live customer 
interactions, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations 
include the world’s leading consumer internet and cloud services companies, enterprises and startups seeking to 
implement AI in transformative ways across multiple industries. We partner with industry leaders to help transform their 
applications or their computing platforms. We also have partnerships in transportation, retail, healthcare, and 
manufacturing, among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI.
At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs, which excel at parallel workloads such as 
the training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every major 
computer maker and CSP, as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU 
accelerated applications. To facilitate customer adoption, we have also built other ready-to-use system reference designs 
around our GPUs, including HGX for hyperscale and supercomputing data centers, EGX for enterprise and edge 
computing, IGX for high-precision edge AI, and AGX for autonomous machines. 
In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the Hopper architecture of data center GPUs, and started shipping the first Hopperbased GPU – the flagship H100. Hopper includes a Transformer Engine, designed to accelerate the training of AI 

transformer models by an order of magnitude over the prior generation. H100 is ideal for accelerating applications such 
as large language models, deep recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins.
NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples 
of these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and 
customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these services in 
their data centers.
Our networking solutions include InfiniBand and Ethernet network adapters and switches, related software, and cables. 
This has enabled us to architect end-to-end data center-scale computing platforms that can interconnect thousands of 
compute nodes with high-performance networking. While historically the server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC 
workloads have become extremely large spanning thousands of compute nodes, the data center has become the new unit 
of computing, with networking as an integral part. 
Beyond GPUs, NVIDIA has expanded its data center processor portfolio to include DPUs, currently shipping in the market, 
and CPUs with samples planned to ship in the first half of fiscal year 2024. The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is supported by 
foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, 
hardware-accelerated networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs. Partners 
supporting Bluefield include many of the top security, storage and networking companies. We can optimize across the 
entire computing, networking and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. The Grace CPU is 
designed for AI infrastructure and high-performance computing, providing the highest performance and twice the 
memory bandwidth and energy-efficiency compared to today’s leading server chips.
While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack computing platform is our large body of 
software, including the CUDA parallel programming model, the CUDA-X collection of application acceleration libraries, 
Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, SDKs and tools, and domain-specific application frameworks. We also offer 
the NVIDIA GPU Cloud registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software stacks across a 
range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, 
researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on 
DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or with NVIDIA’s cloud partners.
In addition to software that is delivered to customers as an integral part of our data center computing platform, we offer 
paid licenses to NVIDIA AI Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software; and NVIDIA vGPU software 
for graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations. 
Gaming
Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the predominant platform. Many factors propel 
computer gaming’s growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of competitive 
gaming or eSports, social connectivity and the increasing popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who create 
game modifications, and creators.
Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance the gaming experience with smoother, 
higher quality graphics. We developed NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX 
features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering. Ray tracing, which has long been used for 
special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light 
to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes. NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or 
NVIDIA DLSS, our AI technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images for games.
Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, 
GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC games on underpowered devices, SHIELD for high quality streaming on TV, as 
well as system-on-chips (SOCs) and development services for game consoles.
In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs, based on the Ada Lovelace architecture. 
The 40 Series features our third generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation Tensor 
Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.
Professional Visualization
We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to 
optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new 
capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design 
and manufacturing encompass computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical 
instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post-production, special 
effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics.
The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically 
accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D design and content creation 

applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform 
their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.
Digital images used in product design need to mirror reality. This requires simulating the physical behavior of light and 
materials, or physically-based rendering. NVIDIA Omniverse is a virtual world simulation and collaboration platform for 3D 
workflows, such as building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications, available as a software subscription 
for enterprise use and free for individual use. Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented reality, or AR, are being 
incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural 
walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these technologies, powered by our GPUs.
Automotive
NVIDIA’s Automotive market is comprised of AV, AI cockpit, electric vehicle computing platforms, and infotainment 
platform solutions. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, 
we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. NVIDIA has 
demonstrated multiple applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in fully autonomous mode or it 
can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver while creating a safer driving experience.

and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural 
networks using our GPUs, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning and control stack within the vehicle on the 
NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. The DRIVE Hyperion platform consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE 
AGX computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving capability as well as an open, modular 
DRIVE Software platform. The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous driving, mapping and 
parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on 
NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software.
In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse 
software, for digital cockpit development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform. NVIDIA's unique 
end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars 
to receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle.
Business Strategies

Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. NVIDIA’s accelerated computing platform can solve complex 
problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, 
it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued performance leaps that 
outpace Moore’s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, interconnect, and software 
layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to 
legacy approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. 
While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying 
architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the fundamental building blocks. The 
programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can 
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks 
developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our 
target markets. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing 
platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs, 
interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and other software. GPUs are uniquely 
suited to AI, and we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership 
position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU 
platforms are available from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI supercomputer. There 
are 3.8 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target 
markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and over 13,000 startups through our 
Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to 
design, train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We believe that computer graphics is 
fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources 
to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications, and create new 
virtual world and simulation capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers 
leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer 
graphics platforms leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also optimized software 

stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as 
enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative 
applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, 
designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications. We also enable interactive graphics 
applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost 
anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming. 
Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the 
transportation industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for 
autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches 
and will use multiple trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and 
software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships 
with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes 
the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to resimulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and 
end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to 
autonomous driving. 
Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers 
and partners through license and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly into their 
own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements can further 
enhance the reach of our technology.
Sales and Marketing
Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our highperformance and efficient computing platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global 
markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner 
network incorporates each industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in 
board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs, internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 
automotive suppliers, mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.
Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of 
application engineers and solution architects to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system 
designs that incorporate our platforms. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving 
our partner network’s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering relationships that 
encourage our end customers and partner network to use the next generation of our products within each platform.
To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and software, we seek to establish and 
maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage 
with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as to ascertain individual product 
requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to 
launch in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for software applications and game 
titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for 
developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and accelerated computing applications that 
leverage our platforms.
As NVIDIA’s business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to broader markets, and from chips to 
platforms, systems and software, so, too, have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our 
partner network, certain of our products are also sold direct to CSPs, enterprise customers, retail channels and 
consumers.
Seasonality
Our computing platforms serve a diverse set of markets such as consumer gaming, enterprise and cloud data centers, 
professional workstations, and automotive. Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of 
our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key customers, some of our products for notebooks and 
game consoles typically generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue in the fourth 
and first quarters. In fiscal year 2023, our supply exceeded our demand in several areas, and our revenue did not follow 
historical seasonal patterns. Historical seasonality trends may not repeat.
Manufacturing 
We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, 
whereby we employ key suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, 
testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the 
International Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, 
reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and 

operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw materials used in the production of our 
products, such as memory, substrates and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of 
most of the raw materials used in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product 
design, additional quality assurance, marketing, and customer support. We have placed non-cancellable inventory orders 
for certain product components in advance of our historical lead times, paid premiums and provided deposits to secure 
future supply and capacity and may need to continue to do so in the future.
We have expanded our supplier relationships to build redundancy and resilience in our operations. We utilize suppliers, 
such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our 
semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors and contract manufacturers, such as Amkor 
Technology, BYD Auto Co. Ltd., or BYD Auto, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., or Hon Hai, King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., 
Omni Logistics, LLC, Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., and Wistron Corporation to perform assembly, 
testing, and packaging of most of our products and platforms. We use contract manufacturers such as Flex Ltd., Jabil 
Inc., and Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd., to manufacture our standard and custom adapter card products and 
switch systems, and Fabrinet to manufacture our networking cables. We purchase substrates from Ibiden Co. Ltd., Kinsus 
Interconnect Technology Corporation, and Unimicron Technology Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, 
Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., or Samsung, and SK Hynix. We often consign key components or materials such as the 
GPU, SoC, memory, and integrated circuit to the contract manufacturers.
We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and 
configuration using test equipment purchased from industry-leading suppliers such as Advantest America Inc. and 
Chroma ATE Inc., and then ship the semiconductors to contract manufacturers, such as BYD Auto and Hon Hai, 
distributors, motherboard and add-in card, or AIC, customers from our third-party warehouses in Hong Kong, Israel, and 
the United States. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test 
specifications, and then ship our products to retailers, system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIC solutions.
Competition 
The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving 
industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product 
offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry 
standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain 
competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will 
demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at 
competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with 
products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by 
our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire 
significant market share.
A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, 
embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI computing processor products, and providers of semiconductor-based highperformance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel and proprietary technologies. Some of 
our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be 
more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. We expect an increasingly competitive environment in the 
future.
Our current competitors include:
suppliers and licensors of hardware and software for discrete and integrated GPUs, custom chips and other 
accelerated computing solutions, including solutions offered for AI, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or 
AMD, and Intel Corporation, or Intel; 
large cloud services companies with internal teams designing chips and software that incorporate accelerated or 
AI computing functionality as part of their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alibaba Group, Alphabet Inc., 
Amazon, Inc., and Baidu, Inc.;
suppliers of Arm-based CPUs and companies that incorporate CPUs as part of their internal solutions or 
platforms;
suppliers of SoC products that are used in servers or embedded into automobiles, autonomous machines, and 
gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc., AMD, Broadcom Inc., or Broadcom, Intel, Qualcomm Incorporated, 
Renesas Electronics Corporation, and Samsung, or companies with internal teams designing SoC products for 
internal use, such as Tesla, Inc.; and
suppliers of interconnect, switch cable solutions, and DPUs such as AMD, Applied Optoelectronics, Inc., Arista 
Networks, Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Intel, Juniper 

Networks, Inc., Lumentum Holdings, and Marvell Technology Group, as well as internal teams of system vendors 
and large cloud services companies. 
Patents and Proprietary Rights
We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure 
agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our IP in the United States and internationally. Our currently issued 
patents have expiration dates from March 2023 to June 2045. We have numerous patents issued, allowed, and pending in 
the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our 
products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, 
and foreign laws to protect our IP. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be 
manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as 
the laws of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products 
more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and 
technologies based on such factors as:
the location in which our products are manufactured;
our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;
the degree to which IP laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions; and
the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and 
regions.
We have licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to enter into such license agreements.
Government Regulations
Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations of the United States as well as of 
foreign governments. 
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced new license requirements that impact 
certain exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products. The impact of 
the new license requirements is difficult to quantify, and it may be challenging for us to manage our operations and 
forecast our operating results due to these requirements. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors- Risks Related to Regulatory, 
Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters” for a discussion of this potential impact.
Additionally, our acquisitions may be subject to government regulatory reviews, and the cost to comply with such 
regulations or costs incurred where regulatory challenges prevent the completion of an acquisition could have a material 
impact on our business. In February 2022, we announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we 
would have acquired Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We 
recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment 
provided at signing. 
Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations has not otherwise had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, 
results of operations, or competitive position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for 
environmental control facilities. Compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited 
to, those pertaining to IP ownership and infringement, taxes, import and export requirements and tariffs, anti-corruption, 
business acquisitions, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, 
competition and antitrust, advertising, employment, product regulations, cybersecurity, environmental, health and safety 
requirements, the responsible use of AI, climate change, cryptocurrency, and consumer laws, could increase our costs, 
impact our competitive position, and otherwise may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition 
and results of operations in subsequent periods. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of these potential 
impacts.
Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance
NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound 
environmental, social and corporate governance, or ESG, principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. The 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing and discussing 
with management our practices related to ESG. We assess our programs annually in consideration of stakeholder 
expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These issues are important for our continued business 
success and reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders. 
The following section and the Human Capital Management Section below provide an overview of our principles and 
practices. More information can be found on the Corporate Responsibility section of our website and in our annual 
Corporate Responsibility Report, or CR Report. Information contained on our website or in our annual CR Report is not 

incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. 
Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks and uncertainties we face related to ESG.
Climate Change
In the area of sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our product lifecycle and assess risks, including 
current and emerging regulations and market impacts. 
In our CR Report published in July 2022, we published metrics related to our environmental impact for fiscal year 2022. 
Fiscal year 2023 metrics are expected to be published in the first half of fiscal year 2024. There has been no material 
impact to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position associated with global sustainability 
regulations, compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of fiscal year 2025, our goal is to purchase 
or generate enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.
Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or designs to support high-performance 
supercomputers, improving energy efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes. GPUs are 
inherently more energy efficient than other forms of computing because they are optimized for throughput, performance 
per watt, and certain AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is evidenced by our continued strong presence 
on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient systems. We powered 23 of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, 
including the top supercomputer, on the November 2022 Green500 list. 
We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable 
scientists, companies, and policy makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change and 
explore mitigation and adaptation strategies.
Human Capital Management
We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our 
stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in 
research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions. 
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must recruit, develop, and retain talented 
employees, including qualified executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff. 
Recruitment
As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have 
been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our differentiated hiring 
strategies for university, professional, executive and diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring 
opportunities in new geographies and provided increased flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. 
Our workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees. 
Earlier in fiscal year 2023, we slowed our hiring to focus on our current employees and manage costs. We maintain a 
connection for global talent from universities through on-campus collaborations with professors and student 
organizations, as well as engagement with technical organizations and participation at industry conferences. Our own 
employees help to surface top talent, with over 37% of our new hires in fiscal year 2023 coming from employee referrals. 
Development and Retention
To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training programs, one on one 
coaching and ongoing feedback. We have a library of live and on-demand learning experiences that include workshops, 
panel discussions, and speaker forums. We curate learning paths focused on our most common development needs and 
constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure that our employees are exposed to the most current programs and 
technologies available. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational programs and advanced 
certifications. We encourage internal mobility through career coaching that advises employees on developmental 
activities and internal transfer opportunities. We have implemented specifically designed mentoring and development 
programs for women and employees from traditionally underrepresented groups to ensure widespread readiness for 
future advancement.
To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party 
platform. Pulse surveys help us gain insight into employee experience and provide ideas so that we can prioritize areas to 
take action. The suggestion box is an always-on, interactive tool where employees share their thoughts about making our 
company a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to protect the identity of the reporter 
and provide a mechanism for reporters to follow an investigation and receive responses.
We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and 
stay. In fiscal year 2023, our overall turnover rate was 5.3%.

Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being
Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage employees to invest in the Company’s 
future. Employees receive equity, except where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our stock 
price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. 
We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees’ and their families’ physical health, well-being and financial 
health, including 401(k) programs in the U.S., statutory pension programs outside the U.S., our employee stock purchase 
program, flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address mental health, stress, and time-management 
challenges. We evaluate our benefit offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across the regions where 
we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on community needs, including assistance for military 
members, additional mental health benefits, and support for new birth parents, and those who wish to become parents.
Diversity and Inclusion
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that supports all 
employees.
When recruiting for new talent or managing current talent, we focus on recruiting, developing, and retaining a more 
diverse workforce with a focus on those historically underrepresented in the technology field, including women, Black/
African American, and Hispanic/Latino candidates.
To this end, we have been:
Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving historically underrepresented communities; 
Assigning dedicated recruiting teams to shepherd underrepresented candidates through the interview process;
Embedding inclusion recruiting partners throughout the business to help align candidates with internal 
opportunities;
Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at building a pipeline of future 
leaders; 
Providing peer support and executive sponsors for nine internal community resource groups;
Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering supportive environments and recruiting for 
diversity;
Ensuring we have and review a diverse pool of candidates for requisitions; and
Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on diversity efforts. 
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our 
workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.
Health and COVID-19 
We supported our people and their families in making their health and safety a top priority during fiscal year 2023 and 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to keep our workforce safe. 
Hybrid Working Environment
We support a hybrid work environment, understanding that many employees want the flexibility to work in the office or 
from home, and make that decision based on the conditions around them at any point in time. 
Steps we took to support employees working from home include:
Home-focused health and well-being programs;
Learning and development resources on how to work, lead and manage remotely; and
Opportunities for employees to socially connect with one another virtually.
During fiscal year 2024, we will continue a flexible work environment and have instituted Company-wide “rest days” for 
employees to recharge.

Information About Our Executive Officers
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of February 17, 
2023:
Name
Age
Position
Jen-Hsun Huang

President and Chief Executive Officer
Colette M. Kress

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ajay K. Puri

Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist

Executive Vice President, Operations
Timothy S. Teter

Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of 
the Board of Directors since our inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a 
computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit 
responsible for LSI's SOC. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for AMD, a semiconductor 
company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford 
University.
Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress 
most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations 
Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was 
responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering 
and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, a 
software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress 
was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining 
Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a 
variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from 
Southern Methodist University.
Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, 
Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over 
a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, 
management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology 
company, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments 
Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California 
Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.
Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and in 2009 became Executive Vice 
President of Operations. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of 
Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products 
for the telecommunications industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the 
Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she 
worked at Quantum Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division, 
and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and 
a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.
Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive 
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two decades 
at the law firm of Cooley LLP, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. Prior to attending 
law school, he worked as an engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, an aerospace company. Mr. Teter holds a 
B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law 
School.
Available Information
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, 
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or through our website, http://www.nvidia.com, as 
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, or the SEC. The SEC’s website, http://www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and 
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or 
connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In evaluating NVIDIA, the following risk factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K. Purchasing or owning NVIDIA common stock involves investment risks including, but not limited to, the risks 
described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or 
reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Additional risks, 
trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, 
financial condition, results of operations or reputation.
Risk Factors Summary
Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets
Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely impact our financial results.
Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market share and revenue.
Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing
Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to mismatches between supply and 
demand.
Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology reduces our control over product quantity and quality, 
manufacturing yields, development, enhancement, and product delivery schedules and could harm our business.
Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant expenses to remediate and can 
damage our business.
Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.
International operations are a significant part of our business, and economic, political, business, and other 
changes in the regions in which we operate may expose us to risks that could harm our business.
Product, system security, and data breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our operations and adversely affect 
our financial condition, stock price and reputation.
Business disruptions could harm our operations and financial results. 
Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.
We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments or acquisitions, nor successfully 
integrate acquisition targets. 
A significant amount of our revenue stems from a limited number of customers and could be adversely affected 
if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers.
We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees.
Modification or interruption of our business processes and information systems may disrupt our business, 
processes and internal controls. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial 
condition and results of operations.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are 
below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters
We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations, and political and other actions, which may adversely 
impact our business.
Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators, and others regarding our environmental, social and governance 
responsibilities could result in financial, reputational and operational harm. 
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI, may result in reputational and financial 
harm and liability.

Adequately protecting our IP rights could be costly, and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are 
unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations, and other obligations. 
Privacy or security concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter customers, 
or result in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability.
Our operating results may be adversely impacted by additional tax liabilities, higher than expected tax rates and 
other tax-related factors.
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings.
Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows from operations and prevent us 
from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.
Delaware law, provisions in our governing documents, and our agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a 
change in control.
Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets
Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely impact our financial results.
Our accelerated computing platforms experience rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, competitive 
products, and industry standards. 
Our success depends on our ability to: 
timely identify industry changes, adapt our strategies, and develop new or enhance existing products and 
technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets, including due to unexpected changes in industry 
standards or disruptive technological innovation that could render our products incompatible with products 
developed by other companies; 
develop new products and technologies through investments in research and development; 
launch new offerings with new business models including standalone software, cloud solutions, and software-, 
infrastructure-, or platform-as-a-service solutions;
expand the ecosystem for our products and technologies;
meet evolving and prevailing customer and industry safety and compliance standards;
manage product and software lifecycles to maintain customer and end user satisfaction;
develop, acquire, and maintain the internal and external infrastructure needed to scale our business, including 
our acquisitions integrations, customer support, e-commerce, IP licensing capabilities and cloud service capacity; 
and 
complete technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments for some of the above activities.
We invest in research and development in markets where we have a limited operating history, which may not produce 
meaningful revenue for several years, if at all. If we fail to develop or monetize new products and technologies, or if they 
do not become widely adopted, our financial results could be adversely affected. Obtaining design wins may involve a 
lengthy process and depend on our ability to anticipate and provide features and functionality that customers will 
demand. They also do not guarantee revenue. Failure to obtain a design win may prevent us from obtaining future design 
wins in subsequent generations. We cannot ensure that the products and technologies we bring to market will provide 
value to our customers and partners. If we fail any of these key success criteria, our financial results may be harmed.
We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples of 
these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and 
customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these services in 
their data centers, and we entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of fiscal year 2023 to 
support these offerings and our research and development activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and 
will take time, resources and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software solutions for AI including 
NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new 
business models or strategies may not be successful and we may fail to sell any meaningful standalone software or as-aservice solutions. We may incur significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these offerings.

Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market share and revenue.
Our target markets remain competitive, and competition may intensify with expanding and changing product and service 
offerings, industry standards, customer needs, new entrants and consolidations. Our competitors’ products, services and 
technologies, including those mentioned above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may be cheaper or provide better 
functionality or features than ours, which has resulted and may in the future result in lower than expected selling prices 
for our products. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger 
customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, new designs and more design wins, and 
greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to acquire 
market share and/or prevent us from doing so, more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets 
and end user customer trends, more quickly transition their products, and secure sufficient foundry capacity and 
packaging materials during a supply-constrained environment, which could harm our business. Some of our customers 
have in-house expertise and internal development capabilities similar to some of ours and can use or develop their own 
solutions to replace those we are providing. For example, others may offer cloud-based services that compete with our AI 
cloud service offerings, and we may not be able to establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to meet 
our business objectives. If we are unable to successfully compete in this environment, demand for our products, services 
and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline.
Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing
Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to mismatches between supply and demand.
We use third parties to manufacture and assemble our products, and we have had and may in the future have long 
manufacturing lead times. We are not provided guaranteed wafer, component and capacity supply, and our supply 
deliveries and production may be non-linear within a quarter or year. If our estimates of customer demand are ultimately 
inaccurate, as we have experienced from time to time, there could be a significant mismatch between supply and 
demand. This mismatch has resulted in both product shortages and excess inventory, has varied across our market 
platforms, and has significantly harmed our financial results.
We build finished products and maintain inventory in advance of anticipated demand. While we have in the past entered 
and may in the future enter into long-term supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure sufficient 
commitments for capacity to address our business needs or our long-term demand expectations may change. 
Additionally, our ability to sell certain products has been and could be impeded if components from third parties that are 
necessary for the finished product are not available. In periods of shortages impacting the semiconductor industry and/or 
limited supply or capacity in our supply chain, the lead times on our orders may be extended. We have previously 
experienced extended lead times of more than 12 months. We have paid premiums and provided deposits to secure 
future supply and capacity, which have increased our product costs and may continue to do so. We may not have the 
ability to reduce our supply commitments at the same rate or at all if our revenue declines. 
Demand for our products is based on many factors in addition to the lead times described above that have caused and/or 
could in the future cause us to either underestimate or overestimate our customers’ future demand for our products, or 
otherwise cause a mismatch between supply and demand for our products and impact the timing and volume of our 
revenue, including:
competing technologies and competitor product releases and announcements; 
changes in business and economic conditions resulting in decreased end demand; 
sudden or sustained government lockdowns or actions to control case spread of COVID-19 or other global or 
local health issues;
rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;
time to market; 
new product introductions and transitions resulting in less demand for existing products;
new or unexpected end use cases;
increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions;
business decisions made by third parties;
the demand for accelerated or AI-related cloud services, including our own software and AI cloud service 
offerings;
the demand for cryptocurrency mining; or
government actions or changes in governmental policies, such as increased restrictions on gaming usage.

Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements, has grown 
significantly due to current supply chain conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At the 
end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements represented more than half of our total 
supply. We may incur inventory provisions if our inventory or supply commitments are misaligned with demand for our 
products.
Our demand predictions may not be correct, as we have experienced from time to time. Product transitions are complex 
and frequently negatively impact our revenue as we often ship both new and legacy architecture products simultaneously 
and we and our channel partners prepare to ship and support new products. Our architecture transitions of Data Center, 
Professional Visualization, and Gaming products may impair our ability to predict demand and impact our supply mix. 
Qualification time for new products, customers anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel 
inventory of legacy architectures ahead of new product introductions can create reductions or volatility in our revenue. 
We have experienced and may in the future experience reduced demand for current generation architectures when 
customers anticipate transitions, and we may be unable to sell multiple product architectures at the same time for 
current and future architecture transitions. While we have managed prior product transitions and have previously sold 
multiple product architectures at the same time, these transitions are difficult and prior trends may not continue. If we 
are unable to execute our architectural transitions as planned for any reason, our financial results may be negatively 
impacted. 
We sell most of our products through channel partners, who sell to distributors, retailers, and/or end customers. As a 
result, the decisions made by our channel partners, distributors, retailers, and in response to changing market conditions 
and changes in end user demand for our products have impacted and could in the future continue to impact our ability to 
properly forecast demand, particularly as they are based on estimates provided by various downstream parties.
If we underestimate our customers' future demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate leadtime or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill orders on a timely 
basis. Even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a costeffective or timely manner, or our contract manufacturers may experience supply constraints. If we fail to fulfill our 
customers’ orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and 
market share and our reputation could be harmed.
If we overestimate our customers’ future demand for our products, or if customers cancel or defer orders or choose to 
purchase from our competitors, we may not be able to reduce our inventory or other contractual purchase commitments. 
In the past, we have experienced a reduction in average selling prices, including due to channel pricing programs that we 
have implemented and may continue to implement, as a result of our overestimation of future demand, and we may need 
to continue these reductions. We have had to increase prices for certain of our products as a result of our suppliers’ 
increase in prices, and we may need to continue to do so for other products in the future. We have also written-down our 
inventory, incurred cancellation penalties, and recorded impairments. These impacts were amplified by our placement of 
non-cancellable and non-returnable purchasing terms, well in advance of our historical lead times and could be 
exacerbated if we need to make changes to the design of future products. The risk of these impacts has increased as our 
purchase obligations and prepaids have grown and become a greater portion of our total supply while our revenue has 
sequentially declined. All of these factors may negatively impact our gross margins and financial results.
We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be new or may not yet exist. Examples include 
our Omniverse platform and third-party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for these 
use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to 
generate any revenue from these use cases and applications.
Challenges in estimating demand could become more pronounced or volatile in the future on both a global and regional 
basis. Extended lead times may occur if we experience other supply constraints caused by natural disasters, pandemics or 
other events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, geopolitical tensions, such as those involving Taiwan and 
China, which comprise a significant portion of our revenue and where we have suppliers, contract manufacturers, and 
assembly partners who are critical to our supply continuity, could have a material adverse impact on us.
The use of our GPUs for other than that for which they were designed and marketed, including new and unexpected use 
cases, has impacted and can in the future impact demand for our products, including by leading to inconsistent spikes 
and drops in demand. For example, a number of years ago, our Gaming GPUs began to be used for digital currency mining, 
including blockchain-based platforms such as Ethereum. It is difficult for us to estimate with any reasonable degree of 
precision, the past or current impact of cryptocurrency mining, or forecast the future impact of cryptocurrency mining, 
on demand for our products. Volatility in the cryptocurrency market, including new compute technologies, price changes 
in cryptocurrencies, government cryptocurrency policies and regulations, new cryptocurrency standards, and changes in 
the method of verifying blockchain transactions, has impacted and can in the future impact cryptocurrency mining and 
demand for our products and can further impact our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to 
cryptocurrency standards and processes including, but not limited to, the recently implemented Ethereum 2.0 merge may 
decrease the usage of GPUs for Ethereum mining as well as create increased aftermarket sales of our GPUs, which could 
negatively impact retail prices for our GPUs and reduce demand for our new GPUs. We previously introduced Lite Hash 

Rate, or LHR, GeForce GPUs with limited Ethereum mining capability and provided CMP products in an effort to address 
demand from gamers and direct miners to CMP. With the Ethereum 2.0 merge, NVIDIA Ampere and Ada Lovelace 
architectures no longer include LHR. In addition, our new products or previously sold products may be resold online or on 
the unauthorized “gray market,” which also makes demand forecasting difficult. Gray market products and reseller 
marketplaces compete with our new products and distribution channels.
Additionally, we depend on developers and other third parties to build accelerated computing applications that leverage 
our platforms. We also rely on third-party content providers and publishers to make their content available on our 
platforms such as GeForce NOW. Failure by developers to build applications that leverage our platforms, or failure by 
third-party content providers or publishers to make their content available on reasonable terms or at all for use by our 
customers or end users on our platforms, could adversely affect customer demand.
Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test, package or design our 
products reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and 
product delivery schedules and could harm our business.
We depend on foundries to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. 
We do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead contract with independent subcontractors. We also rely 
on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or 
product enhancements. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for greater functionality from 
our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. We face several risks which have 
adversely affected or could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand and scale our supply chain, negatively 
impact longer-term demand for our products and services, and adversely affect our business operations, gross margin, 
revenue and/or financial results, including:
lack of guaranteed supply of wafer, component and capacity or decommitment and potential higher wafer and 
component prices, from incorrectly estimating demand and failing to place orders with our suppliers with 
sufficient quantities or in a timely manner;
failure by our foundries or contract manufacturers to procure raw materials or to provide adequate levels of 
manufacturing or test capacity for our products;
failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality process technologies, including 
transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory 
designs needed to manufacture our products;
limited number and geographic concentration of global suppliers, foundries, contract manufacturers, assembly 
and test providers, and memory manufacturers;
loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or 
subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or 
change a supplier;
lack of direct control over product quantity, quality and delivery schedules;
suppliers or their suppliers failing to supply high quality products and/or making changes to their products 
without our qualification;
delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our 
subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors’ or other customers’ orders over ours;
requirements to place orders that are not cancellable upon changes in demand or requirements to prepay for 
supply in advance;
low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a foundry’s proprietary process 
technology; and
disruptions in manufacturing, assembly and other processes due to closures related to heat waves or other 
natural disasters and electricity conservation efforts.
Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant expenses to remediate, which can damage 
our reputation and cause us to lose market share.
Our hardware and software product offerings are complex and they have in the past and may in the future contain 
defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in 
design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are 
introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications or as new versions are released. These risks further 
increase when we rely on partners to supply and manufacture components that are used in our products, as these 

arrangements reduce our direct control over production. Although arrangements with component providers may contain 
provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, we generally remain responsible to the customer for warranty 
product defects that may occur from time to time. Some failures in our products or services have been in the past and 
may in the future be only discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in 
our products or services could result in loss of data or intangible property, or expose our end customers to unscrupulous 
third parties who develop and deploy malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Defects or 
failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to the products or the product in 
which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and automotive manufacturers and tier 1 automotive 
suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and 
repair or replacement costs as part of a product recall or otherwise, write-off the value of related inventory, and divert 
the attention of our engineering and management personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct 
the issue. Our efforts to remedy these issues may not be timely or satisfactory to our customers. An error or defect in 
new products, releases, or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure 
to achieve market acceptance, loss of design wins, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, and 
harm to our relationships with existing and prospective customers and partners and consumers’ perceptions of our 
brand, which would in turn negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. We 
may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including for costs to repair or replace products in 
the field or in connection with indemnification obligations, or pay fines imposed by regulatory agencies.
For example, a defect was identified in a third-party component embedded in certain Data Center products. This defect 
has had, and other defects may in the future have, an adverse effect on our cost and supply of components and finished 
goods. These costs could be significant in future periods. We recorded a net warranty liability during fiscal year 2023 
primarily in connection with this defect. While we believe we have accurately recorded for warranty obligations, we may 
need to record additional amounts in the future if our estimate proves to be incorrect. In general, if a product liability 
claim regarding any of our products is brought against us, even if the alleged damage is due to the actions or inactions of 
a third party, such as within our supply chain, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the 
efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may 
be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial 
results.
Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.
Economic and industry uncertainty or changes, including recession or slowing growth, inflation, changes or uncertainty in 
fiscal, monetary, or trade policy, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, higher interest rates, tighter credit, 
lower capital expenditures by businesses, including on IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, labor shortages, and 
lower consumer confidence and spending, have in the past and/or could in the future have adverse, wide-ranging effects 
on our business and financial results, including:
increased costs for wafers, components, logistics, and other supply chain expenses, which have negatively 
impacted our gross margin and may continue to do so;
increased supply, employee, facilities and infrastructure costs and volatility in the financial markets, which have 
reduced and may in the future reduce our margins;
decrease in demand for our products, services and technologies and those of our customers, partners or 
licensees; 
the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us and our customers’ or our licensees’ 
inability to supply products to customers and/or end users; 
limits on our ability to forecast operating results and make business decisions; 
the insolvency of key suppliers, distributors, customers or licensing parties; reduced profitability may also cause 
some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease 
operations; lead to mergers, consolidations or strategic alliances among other companies, which could adversely 
affect our ability to compete effectively; and
increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital markets, reduced 
liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and insurers, 
asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments.
International operations are a significant part of our business, which exposes us to us to risks that could harm our 
business.
We conduct our business and have offices worldwide. Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested 
and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States, and we generated 69% of our revenue during fiscal 

year 2023 from sales outside of the United States. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and 
uncertainties, which have had in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations, including domestic and international economic and political conditions between 
countries in which we and our suppliers and manufacturers do business, government lockdowns to control case spread of 
COVID-19 or other global or local health issues, differing legal standards with respect to protection of IP and employment 
practices, domestic and international business and cultural practices that differ, disruptions to capital markets, counterinflation policies, and/or currency fluctuations, and natural disasters, acts of war or other military actions, terrorism, 
public health issues, and other catastrophic events.
Product, system security, and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce 
our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our 
reputation.
Security breaches, computer malware, social-engineering attacks, denial-of-service attacks, software bugs, server 
malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, and other cyber-attacks 
are increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to successfully detect, defend against them or implement 
adequate preventative measures. 
Cyber-attacks, including ransomware attacks by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-statesupported actors, may become more prevalent and severe. Our ability to recover from ransomware attacks may be limited 
if our backups have been affected by the attack, or if restoring from backups is delayed or not feasible.
Threat actors, sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors now engage and are expected to continue 
to engage in cyber-attacks. Due to increasing geopolitical conflicts and during times of war or other major conflicts, we 
and the third parties upon which we rely may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of cyber-attacks that could materially 
disrupt our ability to provide services and products. Furthermore, we rely on products and services provided by thirdparty suppliers to operate certain critical business systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, 
encryption and authentication technology, employee email, and other functions, which exposes us to supply-chain attacks 
or other business disruptions. We cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our 
partners’ supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could 
result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems, including our products and services, or the 
third-party information technology systems that support our services. Our ability to monitor these third parties’ 
information security practices is limited, and these may not have adequate information security measures in place. In 
addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security breach, our response may be limited or more difficult 
because we may not have direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the security breach. 
Additionally, we are incorporated into the supply chain of a large number of entities worldwide and, as a result, if our 
products or services are compromised, a significant number of our customers and their data could be affected, which 
could result in potential liability and harm our business.
To defend against cyber-attacks, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and 
reliability features, which is expected to result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop our security 
measures, ensure our suppliers have appropriate security measures in place, and continue to meet the evolving security 
requirements of our customers, applicable industry standards, and government regulations. While we take steps to 
detect and remediate certain vulnerabilities that we have identified, we may not always be able to detect all vulnerabilities 
in our security controls, systems or software, including third-party software we have installed, as such threats and 
techniques change frequently and may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. Further, we may 
experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address identified vulnerabilities. These 
vulnerabilities could result in reputational and financial harm.
We hold confidential and proprietary information, including information from partners and customers. Breaches of our 
security measures, along with reported or perceived vulnerabilities or unapproved dissemination of proprietary 
information or sensitive or confidential data about us or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of 
loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and subsequent liability, regulatory inquiries or actions, 
damage to our brand and reputation or other harm, including financial, to our business. For example, we hold propriety 
game source code from third-party partners in our GFN service. Breaches of our GFN security measures, which have 
happened in the past, could expose our partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this source code, damage both us and our 
partners, and expose NVIDIA to potential litigation and liability. If we or a third party we rely on experience a security 
incident, which has occurred in the past, or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may experience 
adverse consequences, including government enforcement actions, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, 
restrictions on processing data, litigation, indemnification obligations, reputational harm, diversion of funds, financial loss, 
loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute 
our goods and services, and other similar harms. Inability to fulfill orders, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers 
as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.

Business disruptions could harm our operations, lead to a decline in revenue and increase our costs.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, power or water 
shortages, telecommunications failures, cloud service provider outages, terrorist attacks, or acts of violence, political and/
or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions, epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters and 
catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, a large portion of our current data center capacity, and a portion of our 
research and development activities are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods 
inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters such as 
earthquakes, wildfires, or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. Catastrophic events can also 
have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development 
systems and personnel. Geopolitical and domestic political developments and other events beyond our control, can 
increase economic volatility globally. Political instability, changes in government or adverse political developments in or 
around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and 
results of operations. Worldwide geopolitical tensions and conflicts, including but not limited to China, Hong Kong, Israel, 
Korea and Taiwan where the manufacture of our product components and final assembly of our products are 
concentrated may result in changing regulatory requirements, and other disruptions that could impact our operations 
and operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. For example, other countries 
have restricted and may continue in the future to restrict business with the State of Israel, where we have engineering, 
sales support operations and manufacturing, and companies with Israeli operations, including by economic boycotts. Our 
operations could be harmed and our costs could increase if manufacturing, logistics or other operations are disrupted for 
any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, 
military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, 
our third-party foundries and other suppliers of being located and consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. 
In the event a disaster, war or catastrophic event affects us, the third-party systems on which we rely, or our customers, 
our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, and substantial expenditures and 
time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales 
and operating results.
Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.
Climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and those of our customers, partners and 
vendors. Water and energy availability and reliability in the communities where we conduct business is critical, and certain 
of our facilities may be vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather events. Extreme heat and wind coupled with dry 
conditions in Northern California may lead to power safety shut offs due to wildfire risk, which can have adverse 
implications for our Santa Clara, California headquarter offices and data centers, including impairing the ability of our 
employees to work effectively. Climate change, its impact on our supply chain and critical infrastructure worldwide, and 
its potential to increase political instability in regions where we, our customers, partners and our vendors do business, 
may disrupt our business and cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and costs to maintain or resume operations. 
Although we maintain insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks, the types and amounts of 
insurance we obtain vary depending on availability and cost. Some of our policies have large deductibles and broad 
exclusions, and our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by insurance may be 
large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.
Our business and those of our suppliers and customers, may also be subject to climate-related laws, regulations and 
lawsuits. Regulations such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits could result in greater direct costs, 
including costs associated with changes to manufacturing processes or the procurement of raw materials used in 
manufacturing processes, increased capital expenditures to improve facilities and equipment, and higher compliance and 
energy costs to reduce emissions, as well as greater indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both 
incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs and restrictions could harm our business and 
results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our operations and product design activities. 
Stakeholder groups may find us insufficiently responsive to the implications of climate change, and therefore we may 
face legal action or reputational harm. We may not achieve our stated goal to source 100% of our global electricity use 
from renewable energy by the end of fiscal year 2025, which could harm our reputation, or we may incur additional, 
unexpected costs to achieve such a goal. We may also experience contractual disputes due to supply chain delays arising 
from climate change-related disruptions, which could result in increased litigation and costs. 
We also face risks related to business trends that may be influenced by climate change concerns. We may face decreased 
demand for computationally powerful but energy intensive products, such as our GPUs, despite their energy efficient 
design and operation, and/or increased consumer or customer expectations around the energy efficiency of our products, 
could negatively impact our business. 
We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments or acquisitions, and we may not be able to 
successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or 
sell our products. 
We have acquired and invested and may continue to do so in businesses that offer products, services and technologies 
that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing strategic objectives. Acquisitions or investments involve 

significant challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our 
products and ultimately could have a negative impact on our financial results. If we pursue a particular transaction, we 
may limit our ability to enter into other transactions that could help us achieve our other strategic objectives. If we are 
unable to timely complete acquisitions, including due to delays and challenges in obtaining regulatory approvals, we may 
be unable to pursue other transactions, we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company, technology 
may evolve and make the acquisition less attractive, and other changes can take place which could reduce the anticipated 
benefits of the transaction and negatively impact our business. For example, in February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank 
announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank 
due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded in operating expenses 
a $1.35 billion charge in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. Regulators could 
also impose conditions that reduce the ultimate value of our acquisitions. In addition, to the extent that our perceived 
ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed, future acquisitions may be more difficult, complex or expensive. 
Further, if we hold investments in publicly traded companies, they could create volatility in our results and may generate 
losses up to the value of the investment. 
Additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to:
difficulty in integrating the technology, systems, products, policies, processes, or operations and integrating and 
retaining the employees, including key personnel, of the acquired business;
diversion of capital and other resources, including management’s attention;
assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of 
acquired assets;
integrating accounting, forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles;
coordinating and integrating operations, particularly in countries in which we do not currently operate;
difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return and uncertainties to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic 
investment, if at all;
difficulty or inability in obtaining governmental, regulatory approval or restrictions or other consents and 
approvals or financing;
stock price impact, fines, fees or reputation harm if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition 
or are otherwise unable to close an acquisition;
legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment;
potential issuances of debt to finance our acquisitions, resulting in increased debt, increased interest expense, 
and compliance with debt covenants or other restrictions; 
the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities;
the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based consideration;
negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target 
operate;
exposure to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities;
potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the assets or company in which 
we are investing or are acquiring; and
impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target’s employees, vendors and customers.
For example, when integrating acquisition target systems into our own, we have experienced and may continue to 
experience challenges including lengthy and costly systems integration, delays in purchasing and shipping products, 
difficulties with system integration via electronic data interchange and other processes with our key suppliers and 
customers, and training and change management needs of integration personnel. These challenges have impacted our 
results of operations and may continue to do so in the future.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and our revenue could be 
adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner 
network. With several of these distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their 
channels. Our operating results depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell 

products that incorporate our processors. In the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products, not to 
incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way. Because most of 
our sales are made on a purchase order basis, our customers can cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments 
with little or no notice to us and without penalty. Our partners or customers may develop their own solutions; our 
customers may purchase products from our competitors; and our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in 
the markets for which they purchase our products, all of which may alter partners’ or customers’ purchasing patterns. 
The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, our inability to sell to a customer due 
to U.S. or other countries’ trade restrictions, or any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable would likely harm our 
financial condition and results of operations. 
If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, our business may be harmed.
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives 
and key employees and recruit and develop diverse talent. Labor is subject to external factors that are beyond our control, 
including our industry’s highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, cost inflation, the COVID-19 pandemic 
and workforce participation rates. Changes in immigration and work permit regulations or in their administration or 
interpretation could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for personnel results in 
increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation, and in times of stock price volatility, as we have 
experienced in the past and may experience in the future, the retentive value of our stock-based compensation may 
decrease. Additionally, we are highly dependent on the services of our longstanding executive team. Failure to ensure 
effective succession planning, transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and key employees 
could hinder our strategic planning and execution and long-term success.
Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business processes and information systems and 
modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. 
We rely upon internal processes and information systems to support key business functions, including our assessment of 
internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The efficient operation 
and scalability of these processes and systems is critical to support our growth. In fiscal year 2023, we continued the 
implementation of accounting and consolidation functionality related to a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, 
system. Any ERP system problems upon implementation, such as quality issues or programming errors, could impact our 
continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and accurately report our financial results. These 
changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. 
Failure to implement new or updated controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our 
operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. 
Identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls, even if quickly remediated once disclosed, may cause 
investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of any material 
weakness could require us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial 
statements may be inaccurate, we may be required to restate our financial statements, our ability to report our financial 
results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our 
stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities.
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition 
and results of operations.
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our workforce and operations and those of our 
customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. COVID-19-related disruptions have created and may continue to create 
supply chain and logistics constraints, and COVID-19 containment around the world has put restrictions on, among other 
areas, manufacturing facilities, commerce, and support operations. Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the 
pandemic resurfaces, such as lockdown measures due to COVID-19 containment efforts in China. End customer sales for 
our products in China have been negatively impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns return. 
COVID-19 has also resulted in, and may continue to result in, disruption of and volatility in global financial markets, which 
could impact overall technology spending or negatively affect our stock price and liquidity. All of these factors have had 
or could in the future have a material negative impact on our business. 
We modified our business and workforce practices in response to COVID-19, including with respect to flexible work and 
social distancing measures, and we may take further actions as required by government regulations or in the best 
interests of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers. These and other measures have caused and may in the 
future cause us to incur incremental expenses and costs.
The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance and our ability to 
timely execute our business strategies may continue to be difficult to measure and predict. The impact of COVID-19 can 
also exacerbate other risks discussed in these risk factors.

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are 
below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors described in 
these risk factors. Therefore, investors should not rely on past comparisons of our results of operations as an indication 
of our future performance. Additional factors that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to:
our ability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of 
our products and services;
our ability to comply with our customers’ contractual obligations;
our extended payment term arrangements with certain customers, the inability of some customers to make 
required payments, our ability to obtain credit insurance for these customers and their extended payment terms, 
and customer bad debt write-offs;
our vendors' payment requirements;
unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; and
changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards.
Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our anticipated future financial results. 
For example, we have granted and may continue to grant extended payment terms to some customers, particularly 
during macroeconomic downturns, which could impact our ability to collect payment. Our vendors have requested and 
may continue to ask for shorter payment terms, which may impact our cash flow generation. These arrangements reduce 
the cash we have available for general business operations. Failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our 
investors or security analysts is likely to cause our stock price to decline, as it has in the past, or experience substantial 
price volatility.
Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters
Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to which our business is subject, and 
political and other actions may adversely impact our business.
We are subject to laws and regulations domestically and worldwide, affecting our operations in areas including, but not 
limited to, IP ownership and infringement; taxes; import and export requirements and tariffs; anti-corruption, including 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; business acquisitions; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; 
data privacy requirements; competition and antitrust; advertising; employment; product regulations; cybersecurity; 
environmental, health, and safety requirements; the responsible use of AI; climate change; cryptocurrency; and consumer 
laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive, could impact our competitive position, and may 
negatively impact our business operations and ability to manufacture and ship our products. There can be no assurance 
that our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers or agents will not violate applicable laws or the policies, controls, 
and procedures that we have designed to help ensure compliance with such laws, and violations could result in fines, 
criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to 
our reputation. Changes to the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject, or changes to their interpretation and 
enforcement could lead to materially greater compliance and other costs and/or further restrictions on our ability to 
manufacture and supply our products and operate our business. For example, we may face increased compliance costs as 
a result of changes or increases in anti-competition legislation, regulation, administrative rule making, increased focus 
from regulators on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks, and enforcement activity resulting from growing public concern 
over concentration of economic power in corporations. Revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and 
enforcement could also result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of or increase to import duties or 
tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on 
our business plans or impact the timing of our shipments. Additionally, changes in the public perception of governments 
in the regions where we operate or plan to operate could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 
Government actions, including trade protection and national security policies of U.S. and foreign government bodies, such 
as tariffs, import or export regulations, including deemed export restrictions, trade and economic sanctions, decrees, 
quotas or other trade barriers and restrictions could affect our ability to ship products, provide services to our customers 
and employees, do business without an export license with entities on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s U.S. Entity List 
or other U.S. government restricted parties lists (which is expected to change from time to time), and generally fulfill our 
contractual obligations and have a material adverse effect on our business. If we were ever found to have violated export 
control laws or sanctions of the U.S. or similar applicable non-U.S. laws, even if the violation occurred without our 
knowledge, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and 
adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
For example, in response to the war in Ukraine, the United States and other jurisdictions imposed economic sanctions and 
export control measures which blocked the passage of our products, services and support into Russia, Belarus, and 

certain regions of Ukraine. In fiscal year 2023, we stopped direct sales to Russia and closed business operations in Russia. 
Concurrently, the war in Ukraine has impacted end customer sales in EMEA and may continue to do so in the future. 
The increasing focus on the strategic importance of AI technologies has already resulted in regulatory restrictions that 
target products and services capable of enabling or facilitating AI, and may in the future result in additional restrictions 
impacting some or all of our product and service offerings. Such restrictions could include additional unilateral or 
multilateral export controls on certain products or technology, including but not limited to AI technologies. As geopolitical 
tensions have increased, semiconductors associated with AI, including GPUs and associated products, are increasingly the 
focus of export control restrictions proposed by stakeholders in the U.S. and its allies, and it is likely that additional 
unilateral or multilateral controls will be adopted. Such controls may be very broad in scope and application, prohibit us 
from exporting our products to any or all customers in one or more markets, including but not limited to China, and could 
negatively impact our manufacturing, testing, and warehousing locations and options, or could impose other conditions 
that limit our ability to serve demand abroad and could negatively and materially impact our business, revenue, and 
financial results. Export controls targeting GPUs and semiconductors associated with AI, which are increasingly likely, 
would restrict our ability to export our technology, products, or services even though competitors may not be subject to 
similar restrictions, creating a competitive disadvantage for us and negatively impacting our business and financial 
results. Increasing use of economic sanctions may also impact demand for our products or services, negatively impacting 
our business and financial results. Additional unilateral or multilateral controls are also likely to include deemed export 
control limitations that negatively impact the ability of our research and development teams to execute our roadmap or 
other objectives in a timely manner. Additional export restrictions may not only impact our ability to serve overseas 
markets, but also provoke responses from foreign governments, including China, that negatively impact our supply chain 
or our ability to provide our products and services to customers in all markets worldwide, which could also substantially 
reduce our revenue.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government, or USG, announced new export restrictions and export 
licensing requirements targeting China’s semiconductor and supercomputing industries. These restrictions impact 
exports of certain chips, as well as software, hardware, equipment, and technology used to develop, produce, and 
manufacture certain chips, to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia, and specifically impact our A100 and 
H100 integrated circuits, DGX or any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits and 
our A100X. The new license requirements also apply to any future NVIDIA integrated circuit achieving certain peak 
performance and chip-to-chip I/O performance thresholds, as well as any system or board that includes those circuits. 
There are also now licensing requirements to export a wide array of products, including networking products, destined for 
certain end users and for certain end uses in China. 
We are required to transition certain operations out of China (including Hong Kong), which could be costly and time 
consuming, and adversely affect our research and development and supply and distribution operations, as well as our 
revenue, during any such transition period.
We have engaged with customers in China to provide alternative products not subject to the new license requirements, 
such as our new A800 offering. To the extent that a customer requires products covered by the new license 
requirements, we may seek a license for the customer but have no assurance that the USG will grant any exemptions or 
licenses for any customer, or that the USG will act on them in a timely manner. The new requirements may have a 
disproportionate impact on NVIDIA and may disadvantage NVIDIA against certain of our competitors who sell products 
that are not subject to the new restrictions or may be able to acquire licenses for their products. 
Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time consuming. Our results and 
competitive position may be harmed if customers in China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if 
customers purchase product from competitors, if customers develop their own internal solution, if we are unable to 
provide contractual warranty or other extended service obligations, if the USG does not grant licenses in a timely manner 
or denies licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant transition costs. Additionally, if we are unable to sell 
our alternative product offerings in China, we may have excess inventory, harming our results. Even if the USG grants any 
requested licenses, the licenses may be temporary or impose burdensome conditions that we cannot or choose not to 
fulfill. The new requirements may benefit certain of our competitors, as the licensing process will make our pre-sale and 
post-sale technical support efforts more cumbersome and less certain, and encourage customers in China to pursue 
alternatives to our products, including semiconductor suppliers based in China, Europe, and Israel.
Additionally, restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on the duration of gaming activities and access to games 
may adversely affect our Gaming revenue, and increased oversight of digital platform companies may adversely affect 
our Data Center revenue.
Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators and others regarding our environmental, social and governance 
responsibilities could result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation and willingness of 
customers and suppliers to do business with us.
Shareholder advocacy groups, certain investment funds, other market participants, shareholders and customers have 
placed increased importance on the implications of the social and environmental cost of their investments and these 
parties, as well as government regulators, have focused increasingly on corporate ESG and sustainability practices and 

disclosures, including those associated with climate change and human rights. Stakeholders may not be satisfied with our 
ESG practices or the speed of their adoption. Additionally, our ESG practices, oversight of ESG practices, or disclosure 
controls may not meet evolving shareholder, regulator, or other industry stakeholder expectations, or we may fail to meet 
sustainability disclosure or ESG reporting standards. We could also incur additional costs and require additional resources 
to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG practices, choose not to conduct business with potential customers, or 
discontinue or not expand business with existing customers due to our policies. These factors may negatively harm our 
brand, reputation and business activities or expose us to liability. 
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI in our offerings, may result in reputational and 
financial harm and liability.
Concerns relating to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies, such as AI, in our products and services may 
result in reputational and financial harm and liability, and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such issues. We are 
increasingly building AI capabilities into many of our products and services. AI poses emerging ethical issues and presents 
risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. If we enable or offer solutions that draw 
controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, such as AI solutions that have unintended consequences 
or are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political 
issues, or if we are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating to the responsible development 
and use of AI models and systems offered through our sales channels, we may experience brand or reputational harm, 
competitive harm or legal liability. Compliance with government regulation in the area of AI ethics may also increase the 
cost of related research and development, and changes in AI-related regulation could disproportionately impact and 
disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices, which may negatively impact our financial results. Our 
failure to address concerns relating to the responsible use of AI by us or others could undermine public confidence in AI 
and slow adoption of AI in our products and services or cause reputational harm. 
Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be 
harmed if we are unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other IP rights 
violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify. An unfavorable ruling could include 
significant damages, invalidation of one or more patents, indemnification of third parties, payment of lost profits, or 
injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merit, could 
cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts 
and attention of management and technical personnel.
We may commence legal proceedings to protect our IP rights, which may increase our operating expenses. We could be 
subject to countersuits as a result. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a 
third party’s IP, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party’s IP rights. If we or one of our 
indemnitees is unable to obtain such a license, on acceptable terms or at all, we could be subject to substantial liabilities 
or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make 
royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially 
reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other 
indemnitee may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results.
We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing 
arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our IP. Foreign laws may not protect our 
products or IP rights to the same extent as United States law. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and 
products more likely. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential information 
could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in 
research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. We also may face risks to our IP if our 
employees are hired by competitors. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing 
and new innovations and technologies but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be 
approved, and, if approved, whether they will be enforceable.
We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations, and other obligations. 
Privacy or security concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and 
potential customers, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability.
We may process sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, 
regulations, industry standards, external and internal policies, contracts and other obligations that govern the processing 
of such data by us and on our behalf. Concerns about our practices or the ultimate use of our products and services with 
regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, 
including for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The 
theft, loss, or misuse of personal data in our possession or by one of our partners could result in damage to our 
reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased security costs and costs related to 
defending legal claims.

In the United States, federal, state and local authorities have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including 
for data breach notification, personal data privacy, and consumer protection. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 
2018, or CCPA, gives California residents the right to access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal 
information, and to receive detailed information about how it is used and shared. The CCPA allows for statutory fines of 
up to $7,500 per violation and the law created a private right of action for certain data breaches. The California Privacy 
Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, became operative in 2023, and restricts the use of certain categories of sensitive personal 
information; further restricts the use of cross-contextual advertising techniques; restricts the retention of personal 
information; expands the types of data breaches subject to the private right of action; and establishes the California 
Privacy Protection Agency which can impose administrative fines for noncompliance. Virginia, Colorado, Utah and 
Connecticut have each passed their own privacy legislation which differ from the CPRA and each become effective in 
2023. Similar laws are being considered in several other states, as well as at the federal and local levels. Additionally, 
several states and localities have enacted measures related to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in 
products and services. If we become subject to additional data privacy laws, the risk of enforcement action against us 
could increase. 
Worldwide regulatory authorities are also considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data 
protection. The European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the United Kingdom 
similarly adopted the U.K. GDPR, governing the strict handling of personal data of persons within the European Economic 
Area, or EEA, and the United Kingdom, respectively, including its use and protection and the ability of persons whose data 
is stored to access, correct, and delete such data about themselves. If we are found not to comply, we could be subject to 
penalties of up to €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is greater, and classes of individuals or consumer 
protection organizations may initiate litigation related to our processing of their personal data. Furthermore, there exists 
a proposed European regulation related to AI that, if adopted, could impose onerous obligations that may 
disproportionately impact and disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices. 
In the ordinary course of business, we may transfer personal data from Europe, China, and other jurisdictions to the 
United States or other countries. Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal data 
transfer laws. For example, the GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EEA. 
The European Commission released a set of “Standard Contractual Clauses” designed for entities to validly transfer 
personal data out of the EEA to jurisdictions that the European Commission has not found to provide an adequate level of 
protection, including the United States. While the European Union and United States governments have recently 
announced an agreement in principle on a new bilateral cross-border transfer mechanism, it is uncertain whether this 
agreement will be overturned in court like the previous two European Union-United States bilateral cross-border transfer 
agreements. These mechanisms are subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on 
these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the United States. Other jurisdictions have enacted or are 
considering similar cross-border personal data transfer laws and local personal data residency laws, any of which would 
increase the cost and complexity of doing business and could result in fines from regulators. For example, China law 
imposes various requirements relating to data processing and data localization. Data broadly defined as important under 
China law, including personal data, may not be transferable outside of China without prior assessment and approval by 
the Cyberspace Administration of China, or CAC. Compliance with these requirements, including CAC assessments and 
any deemed failures of such assessments, could cause us to incur liability, prevent us from using data collected in China, 
or impact our ability to transfer data outside of China. The inability to import personal data to the United States could 
significantly and negatively impact our business operations, limit our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to 
European, China, and other data privacy and security laws, or require us to increase our personal data processing 
capabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at significant expense. Some European regulators have prevented companies 
from transferring personal data out of Europe for allegedly violating the GDPR’s cross-border data transfer limitations, 
which could negatively impact our business. 
We may also be bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such 
obligations may not be successful or may be claimed to be non-compliant. For example, certain privacy laws, such as the 
GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. We 
sometimes host personal data in collaboration with our customers, and if a breach exposed or altered that personal data, 
it could harm those customer relationships and subject us to litigation, regulatory action, or fines. We may publish privacy 
policies, marketing materials and other statements, such as compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory 
principles, regarding data privacy and security. If these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking 
in transparency, deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement 
actions by regulators or other adverse consequences.
Data protection laws around the world are quickly changing and may be interpreted and applied in an increasingly 
stringent fashion and in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These obligations may necessitate changes 
to our information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on 
our behalf. Despite our efforts, we or third parties upon whom we rely may fail to comply with such obligations. If we fail, 
or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant 
consequences, including but not limited to, government enforcement actions, litigation, additional reporting 
requirements and/or oversight, bans on processing personal data and orders to destroy or not use personal data. Any of 
these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition.

We have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than 
expected tax rates and other tax-related factors.
We are subject to complex income tax laws and regulations, as well as non-income-based taxes, in various jurisdictions. 
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are 
regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. For example, we are currently under examination by the 
Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and undergoing tax audits in Germany, Israel and India. 
Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any adverse outcome could increase our worldwide effective tax 
rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position, results of 
operations, net income, and cash flows. 
Further, changes in tax laws may materially impact our results of operations, or the way we conduct our business. These 
include changes to U.S. tax laws and regulations, such as the Inflation Reduction Act, which implements a 15% minimum 
tax on book income and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases and parts of which became effective for us in fiscal 
year 2023. It is possible that these changes, or other tax law changes, could increase our future tax liability or cause other 
adverse impacts. Most of our income is taxable in the United States, with a significant portion qualifying for preferential 
treatment as foreign-derived intangible income, or FDII. If U.S. tax rates increase or the FDII deduction is reduced, our 
provision for income taxes, results of operations, net income and cash flows would be adversely affected. In addition, 
changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project 
undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD. The OECD recommended 
changes to long-standing tax principles and continues to develop new proposals, including allocating greater taxing rights 
to countries where customers are located and establishing a minimum tax on global income. These changes, as adopted 
by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and 
financial condition.
Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in our business or statutory 
rates, the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, available tax incentives, credits and deductions, 
the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of tax audits, changes in accounting principles, adjustments to 
income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, the valuation of our 
deferred tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or 
regulations, the impact of accounting for business combinations, as well as changes in the domestic or international 
organization of our business and structure. Furthermore, the tax effects of accounting for stock-based compensation 
and volatility in our stock price may significantly impact our effective tax rate in the period in which they occur. A decline 
in our stock price may result in reduced future tax benefits from stock-based compensation, increase our effective tax 
rate, and adversely affect our financial results. 
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings.
We currently and will likely continue to face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or 
investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business. For example, we 
are defending on appeal the dismissal of a securities class action lawsuit from multiple shareholders asserting claims that 
we and certain of our officers made false and/or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of 
cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand in 2017 and 2018. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, 
and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages or fines, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing 
or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory 
licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact. Regardless of the 
outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. 
Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows from operations, and prevent us from 
implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.
As of January 29, 2023, we had outstanding a total of $11 billion in notes due by 2060. As each series of senior notes 
matures, unless redeemed or repurchased, we must repay or refinance the notes. If we decide to refinance, we may 
receive less favorable terms, or we may be unable to refinance at all, which may adversely affect our financial condition. 
We also have a $575 million commercial paper program. 
Maintenance of our current and future indebtedness and contractual restrictions could cause us to dedicate a substantial 
portion of our cash flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal repayments; increase our 
vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; limit our flexibility regarding 
changes in our business and our industry; impair our ability to obtain future financing; and restrict our ability to grant 
liens on property, enter into certain mergers, dispose of our assets, or materially change our business.
Our ability to comply with the covenants in our indenture may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any 
of the covenants without a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then any outstanding indebtedness may be declared 
immediately due and payable. Changes to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities, 
restrict our ability to obtain future financing and affect the terms of any such financing.

Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a 
change in control.
The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in 
control. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a 
majority of our outstanding stock. These provisions include the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue 
preferred stock, change the number of directors, and to make, amend or repeal our bylaws without prior shareholder 
approval; the inability of our shareholders to act by written consent or call special meetings; advance notice requirements 
for director nominations and shareholder proposals; and a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions 
in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Under our agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox, if someone makes an 
offer to purchase at least 30% of our outstanding common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to 
purchase the stock. These provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA, discourage proxy contests, and 
make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate 
actions they desire.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. We own and lease approximately 3 million square feet of office and building 
space for our corporate headquarters. In addition, we lease data center space in Santa Clara, California. We also own and 
lease facilities for data centers, research and development, and/or sales and administrative purposes throughout the U.S. 
and in various international locations, primarily in China, India, Israel, and Taiwan. We believe our existing facilities, both 
owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We do not identify or allocate 
assets by operating segment. For additional information regarding obligations under leases, refer to Note 3 of the Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Please see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for a discussion of our legal proceedings.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol NVDA. Public trading of our common 
stock began on January 22, 1999. Prior to that, there was no public market for our common stock. As of February 17, 
2023, we had approximately 344 registered shareholders, not including those shares held in street or nominee name. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On May 23, 2022, our Board of Directors increased and extended our share repurchase program to repurchase additional 
common stock up to a total of $15 billion through December 2023. Since the inception of our share repurchase program, 
we have repurchased an aggregate of 1.10 billion shares for a total cost of $17.12 billion through January 29, 2023. 
During fiscal year 2023, we repurchased 63 million shares for $10.04 billion. As of January 29, 2023, we are authorized, 
subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $7.23 billion through December 2023.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading 
plan or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with 
Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The 
program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be 
suspended at any time at our discretion.
In fiscal year 2023, we paid $398 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our cash dividend program and the payment of 
future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the 
dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders.

The following table presents details of our share repurchase transactions during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023:
Period
Total Number 
of Shares Purchased 
(In millions)
Average Price Paid 
per Share
Total Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced 
Program (In millions)
Approximate Dollar Value 
of Shares that May Yet Be 
Purchased Under the 
Program (In billions)
October 31, 2022 - November 27, 2022

148.11 

7.23 
November 28, 2022 - December 25, 2022
 
 
7.23 
December 26, 2022 - January 29, 2023
 
 
7.23 
Total

Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding
We withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the 
vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During fiscal year 2023, we 
withheld approximately 8 million shares for a total value of $1.48 billion through net share settlements. Refer to Note 4 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further 
discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.
Stock Performance Graphs 
The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return for our common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the 
Nasdaq 100 Index for the five years ended January 29, 2023. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on January 28, 
2018 in our common stock and in each of the S&P 500 Index and the Nasdaq 100 Index. Our common stock is a 
component of each of the presented indices. Total return assumes reinvestment of dividends in each of the indices 
indicated. Total return is based on historical results and is not intended to indicate future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among NVIDIA Corporation, the S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq 100 Index

 S&P 500
 Nasdaq 100
01/28/18
01/27/19
01/26/20
01/31/21
01/30/22
01/29/23

*$100 invested on 1/28/18 in stock and in indices, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Source: FactSet financial data and analytics.
 
1/28/2018
1/27/2019
1/26/2020
1/31/2021
1/30/2022
1/29/2023

100.00 
66.00 
103.63 
215.33 
378.94 
338.18 
S&P 500
100.00 
94.60 
119.36 
137.01 
165.79 
154.80 
Nasdaq 100
100.00 
97.69 
133.01 
189.72 
213.63 
181.38 

ITEM 6. [RESERVED]
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction 
with “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary 
statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell 
shares of our common stock. 
Overview
Our Company and Our Businesses

focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. Fueled by 
the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU 
architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, AI, data science, AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet 
applications.
Our two operating segments are "Compute & Networking" and "Graphics." Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges
Supply, Products Transitions, and New Products and Business Models
Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements, has grown 
significantly due to current supply chain conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At the 
end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements represented more than half of our total 
supply. Inventory provisions for excess inventory and purchase obligations totaled $2.17 billion in fiscal year 2023. We 
may incur inventory provisions if our inventory or supply commitments are misaligned with demand for our products.
Product transitions are complex as we often ship both new and legacy architecture products simultaneously and we and 
our channel partners prepare to ship and support new products. We are currently transitioning the architecture of our 
Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Gaming products. Qualification time for new products, customers 
anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel inventory of legacy architectures ahead of new 
product introductions can create reductions or volatility in our revenue. While we have managed prior product transitions 
and have previously sold multiple product architectures at the same time, these transitions are difficult and prior trends 
may not continue. 
We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be new or may not yet exist. Examples include 
our Omniverse platform and third-party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for these 
use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to 
generate any revenue from these use cases and applications.
NVIDIA AI Cloud Service Offerings
We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples of 
these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and 
customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these services in 
their data centers.
We entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of fiscal year 2023 to these offerings and our 
research and development activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and will take time, resources and 
investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software solutions for AI including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA 
Omniverse, NVIDIA DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new business models or strategies 
may not be successful and we may fail to sell any meaningful standalone software or as-a-service solutions. We may incur 
significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these offerings.
Global Trade
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the USG announced new license requirements that, with certain exceptions, 
impact exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of our A100 and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or 
any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits and our A100X. We are required to 
transition certain operations out of China (including Hong Kong), including research and development and supply and 

distribution operations. We have engaged with customers in China to provide alternative products not subject to the new 
license requirements, such as our new A800 offering.
Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time consuming. Our results and 
competitive position may be harmed if customers in China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if 
customers purchase product from competitors, or if customers develop their own internal solution, if the USG does not 
grant licenses in a timely manner or denies licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant transition costs. 
COVID-19
During fiscal year 2023, we reopened our offices worldwide. We incurred incremental expenses and related in-office costs 
as we ramped onsite services.
Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the pandemic resurfaces, such as lockdown measures due to COVID-19 
containment efforts in China. During fiscal year 2023, end customer sales for our products in China have been negatively 
impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns return. COVID-19-related disruptions have created 
and may continue to create supply chain and logistics constraints. Challenges in estimating demand could become more 
pronounced or volatile in the future on both a global and regional basis.
Russia
In fiscal year 2023, we stopped direct sales to Russia and later in the year, we closed business operations in Russia. Direct 
sales to Russia in fiscal year 2022 were immaterial. Our revenue to partners that sell into Russia may have been negatively 
impacted due to the war in Ukraine.
Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement
In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA 
would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the 
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the 
prepayment provided at signing.
Fiscal Year 2023 Summary
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

Change
($ in millions, except per share data)
Revenue
26,974 
26,914 
 — %
Gross margin
 56.9 %
 64.9 %
Down 8.0 pts
Operating expenses
11,132 
7,434 
Up 50%
Income from operations
4,224 
10,041 
Down 58%
Net income
4,368 
9,752 
Down 55%
Net income per diluted share
1.74 
3.85 
Down 55%
We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These 
platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our 
platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and 
Automotive.
Revenue for fiscal year 2023 revenue was $26.97 billion, flat compared with a year ago.
Data Center revenue was up 41% from a year ago led by strong growth from hyperscale customers and also reflects 
purchases made by several CSP partners to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud 
service offerings and our research and development activities. 
Gaming revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels 
as global macro-economic conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand.
Professional Visualization revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting a lower sell-in to partners to help reduce 
channel inventory levels.
Automotive revenue was up 60% from a year ago reflecting growth in sales of self-driving solutions, computing solutions 
for electric vehicle makers and strength in sales of AI cockpit solutions. The increase also included growth in automotive 
development arrangements.
OEM and Other revenue was down 61% from a year ago driven by notebook OEM and CMP. CMP revenue was nominal in 
fiscal year 2023 and $550 million in fiscal year 2022.

Gross margin for fiscal year 2023 declined from a year ago, driven by $2.17 billion of inventory charges largely relating to 
excess supply of NVIDIA Ampere architecture Gaming and Data Center products as compared to the demand 
expectations for these products, particularly for the expected demand in China. The inventory charges were comprised of 
$1.04 billion for inventory on hand and $1.13 billion for inventory purchase obligations in excess of our demand 
expectations.
Operating expenses, which included a $1.35 billion acquisition termination charge related to the Arm transaction, were up 
50% from a year ago. The increase also reflected compensation, data center infrastructure, and engineering development 
costs.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $13.30 billion.
During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.44 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and cash dividends. 
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $7.23 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization through 
December 2023. 
Market Platform Highlights 
Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $15.01 billion, up 41% from fiscal year 2022. The strong growth in Data 
Center revenue was influenced by hyperscaler and cloud usage of our accelerated computing platforms and networking 
portfolio. In Data Center, we announced the NVIDIA Hopper GPU architecture and began ramping the first products 
based on the architecture, including the NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU. The NVIDIA OVX server reference design 
launched for digital twins and other Omniverse applications. We completed two new large language models for cloud AI 
services — NVIDIA NeMo LLM and NVIDIA BioNeMo LLM. Additionally, we announced the NVIDIA Spectrum-4 end-to-end 
400Gbps networking platform and began shipping Quantum-2 in December 2022. 
Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $9.07 billion, down 27% from fiscal year 2022. Gaming results were influenced 
by the rapid change in economic conditions causing excess inventory with our channel partners. We introduced pricing 
programs for our channel partners and started undershipping GPU supply to the partners so that we could lower 
inventory in the channel. As we exited fiscal year 2023, we have made meaningful progress in establishing lower inventory 
levels with our channel partners. In Gaming, we announced the new Ada Lovelace GPU architecture, and introduced the 
first products based on Ada, including the GeForce RTX 4090, RTX 4080, and RTX 4070 Ti desktop GPUs and laptop GPUs 
featured in over 170 laptop designs. We introduced NVIDIA DLSS 3 for over 50 games and applications. We brought 
GeForce RTX 4080-class performance to the GeForce NOW Ultimate membership tier.
Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1.54 billion, down 27% from fiscal year 2022. Professional 
Visualization results were influenced by the rapid change in economic conditions causing excess inventory with our OEM 
partners. In Professional Visualization, we added new NVIDIA Ampere architecture RTX GPUs for workstations. We also 
announced Omniverse Avatar Cloud Engine and Omniverse Cloud and released a major update to NVIDIA Omniverse 
Enterprise.
Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2023 grew 60% compared to fiscal year 2022 to $903 million. In Automotive, we 
started production of the NVIDIA DRIVE Orin autonomous vehicle SOC and introduced next-generation NVIDIA DRIVE 
Thor.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated 
financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the 
United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments 
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of 
contingencies. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to inventories, revenue 
recognition, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the 
carrying values of assets and liabilities. 
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the 
preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of 
these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit 
Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K.
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, firstout basis. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net 
realizable value or for obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory 
provisions relate to excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels and future product 

purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand and market conditions, which requires 
management judgment.
Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory or excess product purchase commitments include changes in 
business and economic conditions, changes in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for our 
products, inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, new product 
introductions resulting in less demand for existing products or inconsistent spikes in demand due to unexpected end use 
cases, failure to estimate customer demand properly, ordering in advance of historical lead-times and the impact of 
changes in future demand, or increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions. Cancellation or 
deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory.
The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was an 
unfavorable impact of 7.5% in fiscal year 2023 and 0.9% in fiscal year 2022. As a fabless semiconductor company, we 
must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future customer demand. In doing so, we must 
account for our third-party manufacturers' lead times and constraints. In the past, our manufacturing lead times have 
been long, and in some cases, extended beyond twelve months for some products. We place non-cancellable inventory 
orders for certain product components in advance of our historical lead times, pay premiums and provide deposits to 
secure future supply and capacity. We also adjust to other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions 
by our competitors, new product transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our 
products.
Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further 
discussion.
Revenue Recognition
We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, 
software licensing, and cloud services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification 
of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the 
transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (where revenue is 
allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the 
standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a 
performance obligation.
Product Sales Revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Certain products are sold with support or an 
extended warranty for the incorporated system, hardware, and/or software. Support and extended warranty revenue are 
recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for 
returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for 
estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if 
product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional 
sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in 
various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that 
are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also 
promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential 
rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.
License and Development Arrangements
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our IP 
components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a 
single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to 
completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each 
project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for additional information.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or 
refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or 
liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; 

and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on 
available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing 
with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change 
based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in 
the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we 
recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, 
and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or 
if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or 
additional income tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, 
related to capital loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management determined not likely 
to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent 
realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as 
income tax benefits during the period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for additional information.
Change in Accounting Estimate
In February 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment. Based on 
advances in technology and usage rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server, storage, and 
network equipment from three years to a range of four to five years, and assembly and test equipment from five years to 
seven years. This change in accounting estimate became effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2024. Based on the 
carrying amounts of a majority of our server, storage, network, and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end 
of fiscal year 2023, it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024 operating income by $133 million as a 
result of the reduction in depreciation expense. 
Results of Operations
A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 
is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared 
to fiscal year 2021 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 
2022, filed with the SEC on March 18, 2022, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov 
and at our investor relations website, http://investor.nvidia.com.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income 
expressed as a percentage of revenue. 
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

Revenue
 100.0 %
 100.0 %
Cost of revenue
 43.1 
 35.1 
Gross profit
 56.9 
 64.9 
Operating expenses
 
Research and development
 27.2 
 19.6 
Sales, general and administrative
 9.1 
 8.0 
Acquisition termination cost
 5.0 
Total operating expenses
 41.3 
 27.6 
Income from operations
 15.6 
 37.3 
Interest income
 1.0 
 0.1 
Interest expense
 (1.0) 
 (0.9) 
Other, net
 (0.1) 
 0.4 
Other income (expense), net
 (0.1) 
 (0.4) 
Income before income tax
 15.5 
 36.9 
Income tax expense (benefit)
 (0.7) 
 0.7 
Net income
 16.2 %
 36.2 %
Revenue
Revenue by Reportable Segments
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

Change
Change
($ in millions)
Compute & Networking
15,068 
11,046 
4,022 
 36 %
Graphics
 
11,906 
 
15,868 
 
(3,962) 
 (25) %
Total
26,974 
26,914 

 — %
Compute & Networking - The year-on-year increase was led by growth from hyperscale customers and also reflects 
purchases made by several CSP partners to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud 
service offerings and our research and development activities. The increase was also related to the growth in Automotive. 
CMP contributed an insignificant amount in fiscal year 2023 compared to $550 million in fiscal year 2022.
Graphics - The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels as 
global macro-economic conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand.
Concentration of Revenue
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 69% and 84% of total revenue for fiscal 
years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decline in revenue outside the U.S. was primarily driven by China and Taiwan 
related to Data Center and Gaming. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to countries based on the billed location 
even if the revenue may be attributable to end customers in a different location.
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the 
cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board and device costs, 
manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, 
inventory and warranty provisions, memory and component costs, tariffs, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also 
includes acquisition-related costs, development costs for license and service arrangements, IP-related costs, and stockbased compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing operations. 
Gross margin was 56.9% and 64.9% for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in fiscal year 2023 was 
primarily due to $2.17 billion of inventory provisions in fiscal year 2023, which consists of approximately $1.04 billion for 
inventory on hand and approximately $1.13 billion for inventory purchase obligations in excess of our current demand 
projections.

Inventory provisions totaled $2.17 billion and $354 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. Sales of inventory 
that was previously written-off totaled $137 million and $111 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. As a 
result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 7.5% and 0.9% in fiscal years 2023 and 
2022, respectively.
Compute & Networking - The gross margin of our Compute & Networking segment decreased during fiscal year 2023 
when compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to inventory provisions.
Graphics - The gross margin of our Graphics segment decreased during fiscal year 2023 when compared to fiscal year 
2022, primarily due to inventory and related provisions and lower margins of GeForce GPUs.
Operating Expenses
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

Change
Change
 
($ in millions)
Research and development expenses
7,339 
5,268 
2,071 
 39 %
% of revenue
 27.2 %
 19.6 %
 
 
Sales, general and administrative expenses
 
2,440 
 
2,166 

 13 %
% of revenue
 9.1 %
 8.0 %
 
 
Acquisition termination cost
 
1,353 
 
 
1,353 
 100 %
% of revenue
 5.0 %
 — %
Total operating expenses
11,132 
7,434 
3,698 
 50 %
% of revenue
 41.3 %
 27.6 %
The increase in research and development expense for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by increased compensation, 
employee growth, engineering development costs, and data center infrastructure.
The increase in sales, general and administrative expense for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by increased 
compensation and employee growth.
We recorded an acquisition termination cost related to the Arm transaction of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting 
the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.
Other Income (Expense), Net
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

Change
Change
 
($ in millions)
Interest income



 821 %
Interest expense
 
(262) 
 
(236) 
 
(26) 
 11 %
Other, net
 
(48) 

(155) 
 (145) %
Other income (expense), net
(43) 
(100) 

 (57) %
Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. The increase in interest 
income was primarily due to higher yields earned on our investments.
Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to our notes. The 
increase in expense reflects interest on the $5.00 billion debt offering issued in June 2021.
Other, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from investments in non-affiliated entities and the 
impact of changes in foreign currency rates. Change in other, net, compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily driven by 
mark-to-market losses from publicly traded equity investments and changes in value from our non-affiliated private 
investments. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our investments in non-affiliated entities.
Income Taxes
We recognized income tax benefit of $187 million for fiscal year 2023 and income tax expense of $189 million for fiscal 
year 2022. Income tax as a percentage of income before income tax was a benefit of 4.5% for fiscal year 2023 and an 
expense of 1.9% for fiscal year 2022.
Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, requires taxpayers to capitalize research and 
development expenditures and to amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen 
years.

The fiscal year 2023 effective tax rate includes the mandatory capitalization and amortization of research and 
development expenses beginning in fiscal year 2023, which resulted in a greater FDII deduction and significantly 
increased current taxes, with a corresponding deferred tax benefit at the relevant statutory tax rate.
The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to increased 
tax benefits of the FDII deduction, stock-based compensation, and the U.S. federal research tax credit, relative to lower 
profitability. This is partially offset by the impact of an increase in the proportion of earnings subject to U.S. tax in fiscal 
year 2023 and the one-time benefits of the domestication of a foreign subsidiary in fiscal year 2022, or the 
Domestication.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2023 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due primarily to tax 
benefits from the FDII deduction, tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax 
credit. 
Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2022 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to tax benefits from 
the FDII deduction, income earned in jurisdictions that are subject to taxes lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, 
excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, recognition of U.S. federal research tax credit and the one-time 
benefits of the Domestication.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Cash and cash equivalents
3,389 
1,990 
Marketable securities
 
9,907 
 
19,218 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
13,296 
21,208 
 
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities
5,641 
9,108 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
7,375 
(9,830) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
(11,617) $ 
1,865 
As of January 29, 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, a decrease of $7.91 
billion from the end of fiscal year 2022. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income 
securities, the diversification of investment types and credit exposures, and certain maturity limits on our portfolio.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to a 
decrease in net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as the Arm acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion, 
and higher tax payments, partially offset by changes in working capital. Changes in working capital were primarily driven 
by lower accounts receivable due to strong collections partially offset by timing of supplier payments and inventory 
deliveries. 
Cash provided by investing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily driven by lower 
purchases and higher sales and maturities of marketable securities, offset by higher capital expenditures.
Cash used in financing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, due to share repurchases and 
the absence of debt issuance proceeds in fiscal year 2023, offset by absence of debt repayment.
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and cash generated by our 
operations. At the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We 
believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, and for 
the foreseeable future, including our future supply obligations and $1.25 billion of debt repayment due in fiscal year 2024. 
We continuously evaluate our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to ensure we can 
finance future capital requirements.

Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated 
corporations and financial institutions, and foreign government entities, as well as certificates of deposit issued by highly 
rated financial institutions. These marketable securities are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 8 of the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional 
information.
During fiscal year 2024, we expect to use our existing cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash 
generated by our operations to fund our capital investments of approximately $1.10 billion to $1.30 billion related to 
property and equipment.
Except for approximately $1.38 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held outside the U.S. for which 
we have not accrued any related foreign or state taxes if we repatriate these amounts to the U.S., substantially all of our 
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2023 are available for 
use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. 
Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the TCJA requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenditures and to 
amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen years. The adverse cash flow 
impact of mandatory capitalization will be reduced in future years as capitalized research and development expenditures 
continue to amortize. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Capital Return to Shareholders
During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.04 billion in share repurchases and $398 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our 
cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board of 
Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the 
best interests of our shareholders. 
As of January 29, 2023, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our 
common stock up to $7.23 billion through December 2023.
Outstanding Indebtedness and Commercial Paper Program
Our aggregate debt maturities as of January 29, 2023, by year payable, are as follows:
 
January 29,

(In millions)
Due in one year
1,250 
Due in one to five years
 
2,250 
Due in five to ten years
 
4,000 
Due in greater than ten years
 
3,500 
Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs
 
(47) 
Net carrying amount
 
10,953 
Less short-term portion
 
(1,250) 
Total long-term portion
9,703 
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of the end of fiscal year 
2023, we had not issued any commercial paper.
Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for further discussion.
Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations
For a description of our long-term debt, purchase obligations, and operating lease obligations, refer to Note 12, Note 13, 
and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, 
respectively.
We have unrecognized tax benefits of $1.02 billion, which includes related interest and penalties of $95 million, recorded 
in non-current income tax payable at the end of fiscal year 2023. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any 
potential tax liability, interest payments, or penalties in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax 
positions and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. We are currently under examination by the 
Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

Climate Change
To date, there has been no material impact to our results of operations associated with global sustainability regulations, 
compliance, costs from sourcing renewable energy or climate-related business trends.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Investment and Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. The investment 
portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and strategic 
growth of our businesses.
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our investment portfolio. According to our 
analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these 
investments of $17 million.
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $11.00 billion of senior Notes outstanding. We carry the Notes at face value less 
unamortized discount on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the Notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial 
statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal as our sales are in United States 
dollars and foreign currency forward contracts are used to offset movements of foreign currency exchange rate 
movements. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income or expense. The impact 
of foreign currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2023 
and 2022.
Sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, 
therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to 
other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. 
Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers 
raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. Additionally, we have international operations and incur 
expenditures in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are 
adversely affected by a weaker dollar. The primary currency we hedge is Israeli Shekel. 
We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our 
operating expenses. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge 
relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive 
income or loss, and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in 
earnings or ineffectiveness should occur.
We also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not 
designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other 
income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 10% as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, the amount recorded in accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been 
approximately $112 million and $103 million lower, respectively. Change in value recorded in accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss) would be expected to offset a corresponding change in hedged forecasted foreign currency 
expenses when recognized.
If an adverse 10% foreign exchange rate change was applied to our balance sheet hedging contracts, it would have 
resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of approximately $36 million and $41 million as of January 29, 2023 
and January 30, 2022, respectively. These changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net by 
corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the 
hedge contracts fully cover the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities balances.
Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for additional information. 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this Item is set forth in our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE
None. 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on their evaluation as of January 29, 2023, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the 
Exchange Act) were effective to provide reasonable assurance.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as 
such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our 
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the 
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 29, 2023 based on the criteria set forth in 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the criteria set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework, our 
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 29, 2023.
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 29, 2023 has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included 
herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended January 29, 2023 
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. In 
fiscal year 2022, we began an upgrade of our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system, which will update much of our 
existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records used to report 
operating results. The upgrade will occur in phases. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we completed the 
consolidated financial reporting phase of the implementation, which included updating our internal control over financial 
reporting. We will continue to evaluate each quarter whether there are changes that materially affect our internal control 
over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure 
controls and procedures or our internal controls, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well 
conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system 
are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the 
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, 
no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within 
NVIDIA have been detected.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
Not Applicable.

PART III 
Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this report because we will file with the SEC a definitive proxy 
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A, or the 2023 Proxy Statement, no later than 120 days after the end of fiscal year 
2023, and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Identification of Directors
Information regarding directors required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Executive Officers
Reference is made to the information regarding executive officers appearing under the heading “Information About Our 
Executive Officers” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Audit Committee and Financial Experts
Information regarding our Audit Committee required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under 
the captions “Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors” and “Information About the Board of Directors 
and Corporate Governance,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Material Changes to Procedures for Recommending Directors
Information regarding procedures for recommending directors required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy 
Statement under the caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act required by this item will be contained in our 
2023 Proxy Statement under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Code of Conduct
Information regarding our Code of Conduct required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the 
caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance - Code of Conduct,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference. The full text of our Code of Conduct and Financial Team Code of Conduct are published on the 
Investor Relations portion of our website, under Governance, at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to either 
code, or grant any waiver from a provision of either code to any executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the 
nature of the amendment or waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K. The contents of our website are not a part 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Information regarding our executive compensation required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement 
under the captions “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Director 
Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Report,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Ownership of NVIDIA Securities
Information regarding ownership of NVIDIA securities required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Information regarding our equity compensation plans required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement 
under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information," and is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Information regarding related transactions and director independence required by this item will be contained in our 2023 
Proxy Statement under the captions “Review of Transactions with Related Persons” and “Information About the Board of 

Directors and Corporate Governance - Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
Information regarding accounting fees and services required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference. 
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
 
Page
(a)
Financial Statements
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238)

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and January 31, 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, 
and January 31, 2021

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and 
January 31, 2021

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and January 
31, 2021

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial Statement Schedule
 
 
Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and 
January 31, 2021

Exhibits
 
 
The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as a part of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of NVIDIA Corporation
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the 
“Company”) as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 29, 
2023, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) 
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control 
over financial reporting as of January 29, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework 
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Company as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows 
for each of the three years in the period ended January 29, 2023 in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective 
internal control over financial reporting as of January 29, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal 
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, 
included in Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our 
responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in 
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of 
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that 
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal 
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated 
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates 
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially 
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit 
matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it 
relates.
Valuation of Inventories - Provisions for Excess or Obsolete Inventories and Excess Product Purchase Commitments
As described in Notes 1, 10 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company charges cost of sales for 
inventory provisions to write-down inventory for excess or obsolete inventory and for excess product purchase 
commitments. Most of the Company’s inventory provisions relate to excess quantities of products, based on the 
Company’s inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand 
and market conditions. As of January 29, 2023, the Company’s consolidated inventories balance was $5,159 million and 
the Company’s consolidated outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply obligations balance was $4,920 million, 
of which a significant portion relates to inventory purchase obligations. 
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of inventories, 
specifically the provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess product purchase commitments, is a critical audit 
matter are the significant judgment by management when developing provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and 
excess product purchase commitments, including developing assumptions related to future demand and market 
conditions. This in turn led to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and 
evaluating management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to management’s provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess product purchase commitments, 
including controls over management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. These procedures 
also included, among others, testing management’s process for developing the provisions for excess or obsolete 
inventories and excess product purchase commitments; evaluating the appropriateness of management’s approach; 
testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the approach; and evaluating the reasonableness of 
management’s assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. Evaluating management’s assumptions 
related to future demand and market conditions involved evaluating whether the assumptions used by management were 
reasonable considering (i) current and past results, including historical product life cycle, (ii) the consistency with external 
market and industry data, and (iii) changes in technology.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
February 24, 2023
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2004. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

Revenue
26,974 
26,914 
16,675 
Cost of revenue
 
11,618 
 
9,439 
 
6,279 
Gross profit
 
15,356 
 
17,475 
 
10,396 
Operating expenses
 
 
 
Research and development
 
7,339 
 
5,268 
 
3,924 
Sales, general and administrative
 
2,440 
 
2,166 
 
1,940 
Acquisition termination cost
 
1,353 
 
 
Total operating expenses
 
11,132 
 
7,434 
 
5,864 
Income from operations
 
4,224 
 
10,041 
 
4,532 
Interest income

Interest expense
 
(262) 
(236) 
(184) 
Other, net
 
(48) 

Other income (expense), net
 
(43) 
(100) 
(123) 
Income before income tax
 
4,181 
 
9,941 
 
4,409 
Income tax expense (benefit)
 
(187) 

Net income
4,368 
9,752 
4,332 
Net income per share:
Basic
1.76 
3.91 
1.76 
Diluted
1.74 
3.85 
1.73 
Weighted average shares used in per share computation:
Basic
 
2,487 
 
2,496 
 
2,467 
Diluted
 
2,507 
 
2,535 
 
2,510 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

Net income
4,368 
9,752 
4,332 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
Available-for-sale debt securities:
Net unrealized gain (loss)
 
(31) 
(16) 

Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in net income

(2) 
Net change in unrealized loss
 
(30) 
(16) 
Cash flow hedges:
Net unrealized gain (loss)

(43) 

Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in net income
 
(49) 

Net change in unrealized gain (loss)
 
(2) 
(14) 

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 
(32) 
(30) 

Total comprehensive income
4,336 
9,722 
4,350 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except par value)
 
January 29,

January 30,

ASSETS
 
 
Current assets:
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
3,389 
1,990 
Marketable securities
 
9,907 
 
19,218 
Accounts receivable, net
 
3,827 
 
4,650 
Inventories
 
5,159 
 
2,605 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets

Total current assets
 
23,073 
 
28,829 
Property and equipment, net
 
3,807 
 
2,778 
Operating lease assets
 
1,038 

Goodwill
 
4,372 
 
4,349 
Intangible assets, net
 
1,676 
 
2,339 
Deferred income tax assets
 
3,396 
 
1,222 
Other assets
 
3,820 
 
3,841 
Total assets
41,182 
44,187 
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
 
 
Accounts payable
1,193 
1,783 
Accrued and other current liabilities
 
4,120 
 
2,552 
Short-term debt
 
1,250 
 
Total current liabilities
 
6,563 
 
4,335 
Long-term debt
 
9,703 
 
10,946 
Long-term operating lease liabilities 

Other long-term liabilities
 
1,913 
 
1,553 
Total liabilities
 
19,081 
 
17,575 
Commitments and contingencies - see Note 13
Shareholders’ equity:
 
 
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; 2 shares authorized; none issued
 
 
Common stock, $0.001 par value; 8,000 shares authorized; 2,466 shares issued and outstanding as of 
January 29, 2023; 2,506 shares issued and outstanding as of January 30, 2022

Additional paid-in capital
 
11,971 
 
10,385 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
(43) 
(11) 
Retained earnings
 
10,171 
 
16,235 
Total shareholders' equity
 
22,101 
 
26,612 
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
41,182 
44,187 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Stock
Outstanding
Additional Paid-in
Treasury
Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive
Retained
Total 
Shareholders'
(In millions, except per share data)
Shares
Amount
Capital
 Stock
 Income (Loss)
 Earnings
 Equity
Balances, January 26, 2020
 
2,450 

7,043 
(9,814) $ 

14,971 
12,204 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,332 
 
4,332 
Other comprehensive income
 
 
 

Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(11) 
 
 
(942) 
 
 
(942) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(395) 
(395) 
Fair value of partially vested equity awards assumed in connection with acquisitions
 


Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
1,396 
 
 
 
 
1,396 
Balances, January 31, 2021
 
2,479 

8,719 
 
(10,756) 

18,908 
 
16,893 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,752 
 
9,752 
Other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
(30) 
 
(30) 
Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(8) 
 
(614) 
(1,290) 
 
 
(1,904) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(399) 
(399) 
Fair value of partially vested equity awards assumed in connection with acquisitions
 


Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
2,001 
 
 
 
 
2,001 
Retirement of Treasury Stock
 
 
 
(20) 
12,046 
 
 
(12,026) 
Balances, January 30, 2022
 
2,506 

10,385 
 
 
(11) 
16,235 
 
26,612 
Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,368 
 
4,368 
Other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
(32) 
 
(32) 
Issuance of common stock from stock plans


Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units
 
(8) 
 
(1,475) 
 
 
 
(1,475) 
Shares repurchased
 
(63) 
(1) 
(4) 
 
 
(10,034) 
(10,039) 
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(398) 
(398) 
Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
2,710 
 
 
 
 
2,710 
Balances, January 29, 2023
 
2,466 

11,971 
(43) $ 
10,171 
22,101 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
Net income
4,368 
9,752 
4,332 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
Stock-based compensation expense
 
2,709 
 
2,004 
 
1,397 
Depreciation and amortization
 
1,544 
 
1,174 
 
1,098 
Acquisition termination cost
 
1,353 
 
 
Losses (gains) on investments in non-affiliates, net

(100) 
Deferred income taxes
 
(2,164) 
(406) 
(282) 
Other
 
(7) 

(20) 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
 
 
Accounts receivable

(2,215) 
(550) 
Inventories
 
(2,554) 
(774) 
(524) 
Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
(1,517) 
(1,715) 
(394) 
Accounts payable
 
(551) 

Accrued and other current liabilities
 
1,341 

Other long-term liabilities

Net cash provided by operating activities
 
5,641 
 
9,108 
 
5,822 
Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities
 
19,425 
 
15,197 
 
8,792 
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities
 
1,806 
 
1,023 

Purchases of marketable securities
 
(11,897) 
(24,787) 
(19,308) 
Purchases related to property and equipment and intangible assets
 
(1,833) 
(976) 
(1,128) 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
 
(49) 
(263) 
(8,524) 
Investments and other, net
 
(77) 
(24) 
(34) 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
7,375 
 
(9,830) 
(19,675) 
Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
Proceeds related to employee stock plans

Payments related to repurchases of common stock
 
(10,039) 
 
Payments related to tax on restricted stock units
 
(1,475) 
(1,904) 
(942) 
Dividends paid
 
(398) 
(399) 
(395) 
Principal payments on property and equipment
 
(58) 
(83) 
(17) 
Issuance of debt, net of issuance costs
 
 
4,977 
 
4,968 
Repayment of debt
 
 
(1,000) 
Other
 
(2) 
(7) 
(4) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
(11,617) 
1,865 
 
3,804 
Change in cash and cash equivalents
 
1,399 
 
1,143 
 
(10,049) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
1,990 

10,896 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
3,389 
1,990 

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
Cash paid for income taxes, net
1,404 


Cash paid for interest



See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Our Company
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in 
Delaware in April 1998. 
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Fiscal Year
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were both 52week years. Fiscal year 2021 was a 53-week year.
Reclassifications
Certain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation.
Prior period intangible asset gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization in Note 7 have been adjusted to write 
off immaterial fully amortized intangible assets as of January 30, 2022.
Principles of Consolidation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All 
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those 
related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income 
taxes, goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement costs, restructuring and other 
charges, and other contingencies. The inputs into our judgments and estimates consider the economic implications of 
COVID-19. These estimates are based on historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
In February 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment. Based on 
advances in technology and usage rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server, storage, and 
network equipment from three to a range of four to five years, and assembly and test equipment from five to seven 
years. This change in accounting estimate became effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2024. Based on the carrying 
amounts of a majority of our server, storage, network, and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end of fiscal 
year 2023, it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024 operating income by $133 million as a result of the 
reduction in depreciation expense. 
Revenue Recognition
We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, 
software licensing, and cloud services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification 
of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the 
transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (where revenue is 
allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the 
standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a 
performance obligation.
Product Sales Revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Certain products are sold with support or an 
extended warranty for the incorporated system, hardware, and/or software. Support and extended warranty revenue are 
recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for 
returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for 
estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional 
sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in 
various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that 
are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also 
promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential 
rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.
License and Development Arrangements
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our IP 
components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a 
single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to 
completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each 
project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Software Licensing
Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software when it is made available to the customer. 
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over 
which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with the right to receive, on a 
when-and-if available basis, future unspecified software updates and upgrades. Revenue from software licenses is 
recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. Software support revenue is recognized ratably 
over the service period, or as services are performed.
Cloud Services
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software and hardware infrastructure without taking possession of 
the software or hardware, are provided on a subscription basis or a combination of subscription plus usage. Revenue 
related to subscription-based cloud services is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud 
services based on usage is recognized as usage occurs. 
Product Warranties
We generally offer a limited warranty to end-users that ranges from one to three years for products in order to repair or 
replace products for any manufacturing defects or hardware component failures. Cost of revenue includes the estimated 
cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may 
offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. We also accrue for known warranty and 
indemnification issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Stock-based Compensation
We use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant, minus a dividend yield discount, as the fair 
value of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units that are based on our corporate financial 
performance targets, or PSUs. We use a Monte Carlo simulation on the date of grant to estimate the fair value of 
performance stock units that are based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs. The compensation expense for 
RSUs and market-based PSUs is recognized using a straight-line attribution method over the requisite employee service 
period while compensation expense for PSUs is recognized using an accelerated amortization model. We estimate the fair 
value of shares to be issued under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, using the Black-Scholes model at the 
commencement of an offering period in March and September of each year. Stock-based compensation for our ESPP is 
expensed using an accelerated amortization model. Additionally, we estimate forfeitures at least annually based on 
historical experience and revise the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those 
estimates.
Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs
We currently, are, and will likely continue to be subject to claims, litigation, and other actions, including potential 
regulatory proceedings, involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, 
competition and antitrust, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. 
There are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigation, and we cannot be certain that these actions 
or other third-party claims against us will be resolved without litigation, fines and/or substantial settlement payments or 
judgments. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our pending litigation, 
investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events, we will 
record the loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigation may be 
materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Foreign Currency Remeasurement
We use the United States dollar as our functional currency for our subsidiaries. Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities are remeasured into United States dollars at end-of-period exchange rates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
such as property and equipment and equity are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are 
remeasured at exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to non-monetary balance 
sheet amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement 
are included in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income and to date have not been significant.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or 
refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or 
liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; 
and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on 
available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing 
with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change 
based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in 
the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we 
recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, 
and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or 
if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or 
additional income tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of January 29, 2023, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion related to capital loss carryforwards, state, and 
certain other deferred tax assets that management determined are not likely to be realized due to jurisdictional 
projections of future taxable income, including capital gains, tax attributes usage limitation by certain jurisdictions, and 
potential utilization limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization 
of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as an income tax 
benefit during the period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Net Income Per Share
Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common and potentially dilutive 
shares outstanding during the period, using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the effect of 
equity awards outstanding is not included in the computation of diluted net income per share for periods when their 
effect is anti-dilutive. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
We consider all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and have an original maturity of three 
months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. Marketable securities consist of highly liquid debt 
investments with maturities of greater than three months when purchased. We currently classify our investments as 
current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations.
We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt securities at the date of acquisition as 
available-for-sale. These available-for-sale debt securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and 
losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. The 
fair value of interest-bearing debt securities includes accrued interest. Realized gains and losses on the sale of 
marketable securities are determined using the specific-identification method and recorded in the other income 
(expense), net, section of our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Available-for-sale debt investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. If the estimated fair value of availablefor-sale debt securities is less than its amortized cost basis, we determine if the difference, if any, is caused by expected 
credit losses and write-down the amortized cost basis of the securities if it is more likely than not we will be required or 
we intend to sell the securities before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Allowances for credit losses and write-downs 
are recognized in the other income (expense), net section of our Consolidated Statements of Income.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying value of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their fair 
values due to their relatively short maturities as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022. Marketable securities are 
comprised of available-for-sale securities that are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains or losses 
included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. Fair value 
of the marketable securities is determined based on quoted market prices. Derivative instruments are recognized as 
either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative 
depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated as fair 
value hedges, the gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the periods of change together with the offsetting losses 
or gains on the hedged items attributed to the risk being hedged. For derivative instruments designated as cash-flow 
hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses on the derivatives is initially reported as a component of other 
comprehensive income or loss and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is recognized in 
earnings. For derivative instruments not designated for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognized in 
earnings.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, 
marketable securities, and accounts receivable. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly-rated fixed income 
securities, the diversification of investment type and credit exposures, and includes certain limits on our portfolio 
duration. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and maintain an allowance for 
potential credit losses. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on 
overall estimated exposure. Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit insurance and letters of 
credit.
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, firstout basis. Inventory costs consist primarily of the cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing 
and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test 
yield fallout, and shipping costs, as well as the cost of purchased memory products and other component parts. We 
charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or for 
obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate to 
excess quantities of products, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to 
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Once inventory has been written-off or written-down, it 
creates a new cost basis for the inventory that is not subsequently written-up. We record a liability for noncancelable 
purchase commitments with suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our 
valuation of obsolete or excess inventory.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line 
method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally three to five years. Once an asset is identified for 
retirement or disposition, the related cost and accumulated depreciation or amortization are removed, and a gain or loss 
is recorded. The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Depreciation expense includes the 
amortization of assets recorded under finance leases. Leasehold improvements and assets recorded under finance leases 
are amortized over the shorter of the expected lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 
months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease 
liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the 
lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments 
discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and 
prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease 
when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of 
potential impairment exist. For the purposes of completing our impairment test, we perform either a qualitative or a 
quantitative analysis on a reporting unit basis. 
Qualitative factors include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, and other relevant events 
and factors affecting the reporting units. 
The quantitative impairment test considers both the income approach and the market approach to estimate a reporting 
unit’s fair value. The income and market valuation approaches consider factors that include, but are not limited to, 
prospective financial information, growth rates, residual values, discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly 
traded companies in our industry and require us to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic 
factors and the future profitability of our business. 
Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets
Intangible assets primarily represent acquired intangible assets including developed technology, in-process research and 
development, or IPR&D, and customer relationships, as well as rights acquired under technology licenses, patents, and 
acquired IP. We currently amortize our intangible assets with finite lives over periods ranging from one to twenty years 
using a method that reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or 
otherwise used up or, if that pattern cannot be reliably determined, using a straight-line amortization method. We initially 
capitalize the fair value of IPR&D as an intangible asset with an indefinite life. When IPR&D projects are completed, we 
reclassify the IPR&D as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortize over the asset’s estimated useful life.
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group 
may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets or asset groups to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the 
carrying amount of an asset or asset group to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by 
the asset or asset group. If the carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an 
impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the 
estimated fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined based on the estimated discounted future cash 
flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. Assets and liabilities to be disposed of would be separately 
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the assets would be reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair 
value less costs to sell, and would no longer be depreciated.
Business Combination
We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and 
intangible assets acquired, including IPR&D, based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of the 
purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our estimates and 
assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. The estimates and assumptions used in valuing 
intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, discount rate used 
to determine the present value of these cash flows and asset lives. These estimates are inherently uncertain and, 
therefore, actual results may differ from the estimates made. As a result, during the measurement period of up to one 
year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the 
corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value 
of the purchase price of an acquisition, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our 
Consolidated Statements of Income.
Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and expensed as incurred.
Investment in Non-Affiliated Entities
Non-marketable equity investments in privately-held companies are recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis only if 
an impairment or observable price adjustment occurs in the period with changes in fair value recorded through net 
income. These investments are valued using observable and unobservable inputs or data in an inactive market and the 
valuation requires our judgment due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. The estimated fair 
value is based on quantitative and qualitative factors including subsequent financing activities by the investee.
Marketable equity investments in publicly-held companies are recorded at fair value with the related unrealized and 
realized gains and losses recognized in other income (expense), net.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 2 - Business Combination
Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement
In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA 
would have acquired Arm from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate due to significant regulatory challenges 
preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 
2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.
Acquisition of Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
In April 2020, we completed the acquisition of all outstanding shares of Mellanox for a total purchase consideration of 
$7.13 billion.
Purchase Price Allocation
The aggregate purchase consideration has been allocated as follows (in millions):
Purchase Price
Cash paid for outstanding Mellanox ordinary shares (1)
7,033 
Cash for Mellanox equity awards (2)

Total cash consideration
 
7,049 
Fair value of Mellanox equity awards assumed by NVIDIA (3)

Total purchase consideration
7,134 
Allocation
Cash and cash equivalents

Marketable securities

Accounts receivable, net

Inventories

Prepaid expenses and other assets

Property and equipment, net

Goodwill
 
3,431 
Intangible assets
 
2,970 
Accounts payable
 
(136) 
Accrued and other current liabilities
 
(236) 
Income tax liability
 
(191) 
Deferred income tax liability
 
(258) 
Other long-term liabilities
 
(119) 
7,134 
(1) 
Represents the cash consideration of $125.00 per share paid to Mellanox shareholders for approximately 56 million shares of outstanding Mellanox 
ordinary shares. 
(2) 
Represents the cash consideration for the settlement of approximately 249 thousand Mellanox stock options held by employees and non-employee 
directors of Mellanox.
(3) 
Represents the fair value of Mellanox’s stock-based compensation awards attributable to pre-combination services.
We allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the 
estimated fair values.
The goodwill is primarily attributable to the planned growth in the combined business of NVIDIA and Mellanox. Goodwill is 
not amortized to earnings, but instead is reviewed for impairment at least annually, absent any interim indicators of 
impairment. Goodwill recognized in the acquisition is not expected to be deductible for foreign tax purposes. Goodwill 
arising from the Mellanox acquisition has been allocated to the Compute and Networking segment. Refer to Note 17 – 
Segment Information for further details on segments.
The operating results of Mellanox have been included in our consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2021 since 
the acquisition date of April 27, 2020. Revenue attributable to Mellanox was approximately 10% for fiscal year 2021. 
There is not a practical way to determine net income attributable to Mellanox due to integration. Acquisition-related costs 
attributable to Mellanox of $28 million were included in selling, general and administrative expense for fiscal year 2021.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Intangible Assets
The estimated fair value and useful life of the acquired intangible assets at the time of the acquisition are as follows:
Fair Value
Useful Lives
(In millions)
Developed technology (1)
1,640 
5 years
Customer relationships (2)

3 years
Order backlog (3)

Based on actual shipments
Trade names (4)

5 years
Total identified finite-lived intangible assets
 
2,340 
IPR&D (5)

N/A
Total identified intangible assets
2,970 
(1) 
The fair value of developed technology was identified using the Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method.
(2) 
Customer relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships using the With and Without Method.
(3) 
Order backlog represents primarily the fair value of purchase arrangements with customers using the Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method. The 
intangible asset was fully amortized as of January 31, 2021.
(4) 
Trade names primarily relate to Mellanox trade names and fair value was determined by applying the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income 
approach.
(5) 
The fair value of IPR&D was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method.
The fair value of the finite-lived intangible assets will be amortized over the estimated useful lives based on the pattern in 
which the economic benefits are expected to be received to cost of revenue and operating expenses. 
Mellanox had an IPR&D project associated with the next generation interconnect product that had not yet reached 
technological feasibility as of the acquisition date. Accordingly, we recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset of 
$630 million for the fair value of this project, which was initially not amortized. In fiscal year 2023, we commenced 
amortization of the IPR&D intangible asset.
Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information
The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for NVIDIA and 
Mellanox as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2020:
 
Pro Forma
 
Year Ended
 
January 31, 2021
(In millions)
Revenue
17,104 
Net income
4,757 
The unaudited pro forma information presented above includes adjustments related to amortization of acquired 
intangible assets, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, fair value of acquired inventory, and transaction 
costs. The unaudited pro forma information is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our 
consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of 
fiscal year 2020 or of the results of our future operations of the combined businesses.
The pro forma results for fiscal year 2021 excluded the inventory step-up expense of $161 million. There were no other 
material nonrecurring adjustments.
Note 3 - Leases
Our lease obligations primarily consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international 
office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2024 and 2035.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Future minimum lease payments under our non-cancelable operating leases as of January 29, 2023, are as follows:
 
Operating Lease 
Obligations
 
(In millions)
Fiscal Year:


2029 and thereafter

Total
 
1,231 
Less imputed interest

Present value of net future minimum lease payments
 
1,078 
Less short-term operating lease liabilities

Long-term operating lease liabilities

In addition to above, we have operating leases, primarily for our data centers, that are expected to commence within 
fiscal years 2024 and 2025 with lease terms of 2 to 8 years for $463 million.
Operating lease expense for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $193 million, $168 million, $145 million, respectively. 
Short-term and variable lease expenses for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 were not significant. 
Other information related to leases was as follows:
Year Ended
January 29, 2023
January 30, 2022
January 31, 2021
 
(In millions)
Supplemental cash flows information
 
Operating cash flows used for operating leases



Operating lease assets obtained in exchange for lease 
obligations



As of January 29, 2023, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 6.8 years and a weighted 
average discount rate of 3.21%. As of January 30, 2022, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease 
term of 7.1 years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.51%.
Note 4 - Stock-Based Compensation
Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance stock units that 
are based on our corporate financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units that are based on market 
conditions, or market-based PSUs, and our ESPP.
Our Consolidated Statements of Income include stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts allocated to 
inventory, as follows:
 
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions)
Cost of revenue



Research and development
 
1,892 
 
1,298 

Sales, general and administrative

Total
2,710 
2,004 
1,397 
Stock-based compensation capitalized in inventories was not significant during fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021. 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The following is a summary of equity awards granted under our equity incentive plans:
Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions, except per share data)
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs
Awards granted

Estimated total grant-date fair value
4,505 
3,492 
2,764 
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share
183.72 
190.69 
76.81 
ESPP
Shares purchased

Weighted average price per share
122.54 
56.36 
34.80 
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share
51.87 
23.24 
16.91 
As of January 29, 2023, there was $6.56 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense. This amount 
is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 1.0 
year for ESPP.
The fair value of shares issued under our ESPP have been estimated with the following assumptions:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(Using the Black-Scholes model)
ESPP
Weighted average expected life (in years)
0.1-2.0
0.1-2.0
0.1-2.0
Risk-free interest rate
—%-4.6%
—%-0.5%
0.1%-1.6%
Volatility
43%-72%
20%-58%
26%-89%
Dividend yield
0.1%
0.1%
0.1%-0.3%
For ESPP shares, the expected term represents the average term from the first day of the offering period to the 
purchase date. The risk-free interest rate assumption used to value ESPP shares is based upon observed interest rates on 
Treasury bills appropriate for the expected term. Our expected stock price volatility assumption for ESPP is estimated 
using historical volatility. For awards granted, we use the dividend yield at grant date. Our RSU, PSU, and market-based 
PSU awards are not eligible for cash dividends prior to vesting; therefore, the fair values of RSUs, PSUs, and market-based 
PSUs are discounted for the dividend yield.
Additionally, for RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards, we estimate forfeitures semi-annually and revise the estimates 
of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on 
historical experience.
Equity Incentive Program
We grant or have granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs, market-based PSUs, and stock purchase rights under the following 
equity incentive plans. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions of various companies, we have assumed certain 
stock-based awards granted under their stock incentive plans and converted them into our RSUs.
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
In 2007, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, as most recently amended and 
restated, or the 2007 Plan.
The 2007 Plan authorizes the issuance of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock, 
restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards, performance cash awards, and other stockbased awards to employees, directors and consultants. Only our employees may receive incentive stock options. As of 
January 29, 2023, up to 47 million shares of our common stock could be issued pursuant to stock awards granted under 
the 2007 Plan, of which 2 million shares were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options. All options are fully 
vested, the last of which will expire by December 2023 if not exercised. Currently, we grant RSUs, PSUs and market-based 
PSUs under the 2007 Plan, under which, as of January 29, 2023, there were 160 million shares available for future grants.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Subject to certain exceptions, RSUs granted to employees vest (A) over a four-year period, subject to continued service, 
with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 6.25% vesting 
quarterly thereafter, (B) over a three-year period, subject to continued service, with 40% vesting on a pre-determined date 
that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 7.5% vesting quarterly thereafter, or (C) over a four-year period, 
subject to continued service, with 6.25% vesting quarterly. PSUs vest over a four-year period, subject to continued 
service, with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and 6.25% vesting 
quarterly thereafter. Market-based PSUs vest 100% on approximately the three-year anniversary of the date of grant. 
However, the number of shares subject to both PSUs and market-based PSUs that are eligible to vest is generally 
determined by the Compensation Committee based on achievement of pre-determined criteria.
Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In 2012, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as most recently 
amended and restated, or the 2012 Plan.
Employees who participate in the 2012 Plan may have up to 15% of their earnings withheld to purchase shares of 
common stock. The Board may decrease this percentage at its discretion. Each offering period is approximately 24 
months, which is generally divided into four purchase periods of six months. The price of common stock purchased under 
our 2012 Plan will be equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the commencement date 
of each offering period or the fair market value of the common stock on each purchase date within the offering. As of 
January 29, 2023, we had 230 million shares reserved for future issuance under the 2012 Plan.
Equity Award Activity
The following is a summary of our equity award transactions under our equity incentive plans: 
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs Outstanding
 
Number of Shares
Weighted Average Grant-Date 
Fair Value
(In millions, except per share data)
Balances, January 30, 2022

114.19 
Granted

183.72 
Vested restricted stock
 
(24) 
100.06 
Canceled and forfeited
 
(2) 
141.17 
Balances, January 29, 2023

158.45 
Vested and expected to vest after January 29, 2023

158.35 
As of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, there were 160 million and 131 million shares, respectively, of common 
stock available for future grants under our equity incentive plans. 
As of January 29, 2023, the total intrinsic value of options currently exercisable and outstanding was $410 million, with an 
average exercise price of $3.79 per share and an average remaining term of 0.5 years. The total intrinsic value of options 
exercised was $642 million, $741 million, and $521 million for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Upon the 
exercise of an option, we issue a new share of stock. 
The total fair value of RSUs and PSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended January 29, 2023, 
January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021, was $4.27 billion, $5.56 billion, and $2.67 billion, respectively.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 5 - Net Income Per Share
The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the 
periods presented:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions, except per share data)
Numerator:
 
 
 
Net income
4,368 
9,752 
4,332 
Denominator:
 
 
 
Basic weighted average shares
 
2,487 
 
2,496 
 
2,467 
Dilutive impact of outstanding equity awards

Diluted weighted average shares
 
2,507 
 
2,535 
 
2,510 
Net income per share:
 
 
 
Basic (1)
1.76 
3.91 
1.76 
Diluted (2)
1.74 
3.85 
1.73 
Equity awards excluded from diluted net income per share because their effect would have 
been anti-dilutive

(1) 
Calculated as net income divided by basic weighted average shares.
(2) 
Calculated as net income divided by diluted weighted average shares.
Note 6 - Goodwill
As of January 29, 2023, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.37 billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated 
to our Compute & Networking and Graphics reporting units of $4.00 billion and $370 million, respectively. As of 
January 30, 2022, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.35 billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated to our 
Compute & Networking and Graphics reporting units of $3.99 billion and $361 million, respectively. Goodwill increased by 
$23 million in fiscal year 2023 from acquisitions. We assigned $14 million of the increase in goodwill to our Compute & 
Networking segment and assigned $9 million of the increase to our Graphics segment. During the fourth quarters of 
fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, we completed our annual qualitative impairment tests and concluded that goodwill was 
not impaired in any of these years. 
Note 7 - Amortizable Intangible Assets
The components of our amortizable intangible assets are as follows:
 
January 29, 2023
January 30, 2022
 
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
 
(In millions)
Acquisition-related intangible 
assets (1)
3,093 
(1,614) $ 
1,479 
3,061 
(947) $ 
2,114 
Patents and licensed technology

(249) 

(221) 

Total intangible assets
3,539 
(1,863) $ 
1,676 
3,507 
(1,168) $ 
2,339 
(1) 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we commenced amortization of a $630 million in-process research and development intangible asset 
related to our acquisition of Mellanox.
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $699 million, $563 
million, and $612 million, respectively. Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible 
assets as of January 29, 2023 is estimated to be $602 million in fiscal year 2024, $541 million in fiscal year 2025, $247 
million in fiscal year 2026, $142 million in fiscal year 2027, $35 million in fiscal year 2028, and $109 million in fiscal year 
2029 and thereafter.
Note 8 - Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt 
securities. 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The following is a summary of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022:
 
January 29, 2023
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash 
Equivalents
Marketable 
Securities
 
(In millions)
Corporate debt securities
4,809 
(12) $ 
4,797 
1,087 
3,710 
Debt securities issued by the United 
States Treasury
 
4,185 

(44) 
4,142 
 
 
4,142 
Debt securities issued by United States 
government agencies
 
1,836 
 
 
(2) 
1,834 

1,784 
Money market funds
 
1,777 
 
 
 
1,777 
 
1,777 
 
Certificates of deposit

Foreign government bonds

Total
13,112 

(58) $ 
13,055 
3,148 
9,907 
 
January 30, 2022
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash Equivalents
Marketable 
Securities
 
(In millions)
Corporate debt securities
9,977 
(3) $ 
9,974 
1,102 
8,872 
Debt securities issued by the United 
States Treasury
 
7,314 
 
 
(14) 
7,300 
 
 
7,300 
Debt securities issued by United 
States government agencies
 
1,612 
 
 
 
1,612 

1,356 
Certificates of deposit
 
1,561 
 
 
 
1,561 

1,540 
Money market funds

Foreign government bonds

Total
20,930 
(17) $ 
20,913 
1,695 
19,218 
The following tables provide the breakdown of unrealized losses as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, aggregated 
by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position:
January 29, 2023
 
Less than 12 Months
12 Months or Greater
Total
 
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
 
(In millions)
Debt securities issued by the United 
States Treasury
2,444 
(21) $ 
1,172 
(23) $ 
3,616 
(44) 
Corporate debt securities
 
1,188 
 
(7) 

(5) 
1,884 
 
(12) 
Debt securities issued by United States 
government agencies
 
1,307 
 
(2) 
 
 
1,307 
 
(2) 
Total
4,939 
(30) $ 
1,868 
(28) $ 
6,807 
(58) 
January 30, 2022
 
Less than 12 Months
12 Months or Greater
Total
 
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
Estimated Fair 
Value
Gross 
Unrealized Loss
 
(In millions)
Debt securities issued by the United 
States Treasury
5,292 
(14) $ 
5,292 
(14) 
Corporate debt securities
 
2,445 
 
(3) 

2,464 
 
(3) 
Total
7,737 
(17) $ 

7,756 
(17) 
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, driven primarily by changes in interest rates. Net 
realized gains and losses were not significant for all periods presented. 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of January 29, 2023 and 
January 30, 2022 are shown below by contractual maturity.
 
January 29, 2023
January 30, 2022
 
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
 
(In millions)
Less than one year
9,738 
9,708 
16,346 
16,343 
Due in 1 - 5 years
 
3,374 
 
3,347 
 
4,584 
 
4,570 
Total
13,112 
13,055 
20,930 
20,913 
Note 9 - Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or 
quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly 
basis.
Fair Value at
Pricing Category
January 29, 2023
January 30, 2022
(In millions)
Assets
Cash equivalents and marketable securities:
Money market funds
Level 1
1,777 

Corporate debt securities
Level 2
4,797 
9,974 
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury
Level 2
4,142 
7,300 
Debt securities issued by United States government agencies
Level 2
1,834 
1,612 
Certificates of deposit
Level 2

1,561 
Foreign government bonds
Level 2


Other assets (Investment in non-affiliated entities):
Publicly-held equity securities (1)
Level 1


Privately-held equity securities
Level 3


Liabilities (2)
0.309% Notes Due 2023
Level 2
1,230 
1,236 
0.584% Notes Due 2024
Level 2
1,185 
1,224 
3.20% Notes Due 2026
Level 2

1,055 
1.55% Notes Due 2028
Level 2
1,099 
1,200 
2.85% Notes Due 2030
Level 2
1,364 
1,542 
2.00% Notes Due 2031
Level 2
1,044 
1,200 
3.50% Notes Due 2040
Level 2

1,066 
3.50% Notes Due 2050
Level 2
1,637 
2,147 
3.70% Notes Due 2060
Level 2


(1) 
Unrealized losses of $61 million from investments in publicly-traded equity securities were recorded in other income (expense), net, in fiscal year 2023. 
Unrealized gains of $48 million from an investment in a publicly-traded equity security were recorded in other income (expense), net, in fiscal year 2022. 
(2) 
These liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their original issuance value, net of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 10 - Balance Sheet Components
Certain balance sheet components are as follows:
 
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Inventories (1):
Raw materials
2,430 

Work in-process

Finished goods
 
2,263 
 
1,122 
Total inventories
5,159 
2,605 
(1) In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we recorded an inventory reserve expense of approximately $1.04 billion and $173 million in cost of revenue, respectively.
 
January 29,

January 30,

Estimated
Useful Life
(In millions)
(In years)
Property and Equipment:
Land


(A)
Buildings, leasehold improvements, and furniture
 
1,598 

(B)
Equipment, compute hardware, and software
 
4,303 
 
2,852 
3-5
Construction in process

(C)
Total property and equipment, gross
 
6,501 
 
4,681 
 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
(2,694) 
(1,903) 
Total property and equipment, net
3,807 
2,778 
 
(A)
Land is a non-depreciable asset.
(B)
The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Leasehold improvements and finance leases are amortized based on the lesser of 
either the asset’s estimated useful life or the expected lease term.
(C)
Construction in process represents assets that are not available for their intended use as of the balance sheet date.
Depreciation expense for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $844 million, $611 million, and $486 million, respectively.
Accumulated amortization of leasehold improvements and finance leases was $327 million and $265 million as of 
January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, respectively. 
Property, equipment and intangible assets acquired by assuming related liabilities during fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 
2021 were $374 million, $258 million, and $157 million, respectively. 
 
January 29,

January 30,

Other assets:
(In millions)
Prepaid supply agreements
2,989 
1,747 
Prepaid royalties

Investment in non-affiliated entities

Advanced consideration for acquisition (1)
 
 
1,353 
Other

Total other assets
3,820 
3,841 
(1)
Refer to Note 2 - Business Combination for further details on the Arm acquisition.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities:
Customer program accruals
1,196 
1,000 
Excess inventory purchase obligations (1)

Accrued payroll and related expenses

Taxes payable

Deferred revenue (2)

Operating leases

Other

Total accrued and other current liabilities
4,120 
2,552 
(1)
In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we recorded an expense of approximately $1.13 billion and $181 million, respectively, in cost of revenue for inventory 
purchase obligations in excess of our current demand projections, and cancellation and underutilization penalties.
(2)
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements, support for hardware and 
software, and cloud services.
 
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Other Long-Term Liabilities:
Income tax payable (1)
1,204 

Deferred income tax

Deferred revenue (2)

Licenses payable

Other

Total other long-term liabilities
1,913 
1,553 
(1)
Income tax payable is comprised of the long-term portion of the one-time transition tax payable, unrecognized tax benefits, and related interest and 
penalties.
(2)
Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to support for hardware and software.
Deferred Revenue
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during fiscal years 2023 and 2022.
 
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period


Deferred revenue added during the period

Addition due to business combinations

Revenue recognized during the period
 
(760) 
(778) 
Balance at end of period


Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the contracted license and development arrangements 
and support for hardware and software. This includes deferred revenue currently recorded and amounts that will be 
invoiced in future periods. As of January 29, 2023, $652 million of revenue related to performance obligations had not 
been recognized, of which we expect to recognize approximately 47% over the next twelve months and the remainder 
thereafter. This excludes revenue related to performance obligations for contracts with a length of one year or less.
Note 11 - Derivative Financial Instruments
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements 
on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains 
or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating 
expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of 
the contracts was not significant as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not 
designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other 
income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
The table below presents the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of January 29, 
2023 and January 30, 2022:
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Designated as cash flow hedges
1,128 
1,023 
Non-designated hedges


As of January 29, 2023, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within eighteen months. The expected 
realized gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency 
forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.
During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting 
treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be 
highly effective. 
Note 12 - Debt
Long-Term Debt
In June 2021, March 2020, and September 2016, we issued a total of $5.00 billion, $5.00 billion, and $2.00 billion 
aggregate principal of senior notes, respectively. The net proceeds from these offerings were $4.98 billion, $4.97 billion, 
and $1.98 billion, respectively, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs.
In fiscal year 2022, we repaid the $1.00 billion of 2.20% Notes Due 2021. 
The carrying value of the Notes, the calendar year of maturity, and the associated interest rates were as follows:
 
 
Expected
Remaining Term 
(years)
Effective
Interest Rate
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
0.309% Notes Due 2023
0.4
0.41%
1,250 
1,250 
0.584% Notes Due 2024
1.4
0.66%
 
1,250 
 
1,250 
3.20% Notes Due 2026
3.6
3.31%
 
1,000 
 
1,000 
1.55% Notes Due 2028
5.4
1.64%
 
1,250 
 
1,250 
2.85% Notes Due 2030
7.2
2.93%
 
1,500 
 
1,500 
2.00% Notes Due 2031
8.4
2.09%
 
1,250 
 
1,250 
3.50% Notes Due 2040
17.2
3.54%
 
1,000 
 
1,000 
3.50% Notes Due 2050
27.2
3.54%
 
2,000 
 
2,000 
3.70% Notes Due 2060
37.2
3.73%

Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs
 
 
 
(47) 
(54) 
Net carrying amount
 
 
 
10,953 
 
10,946 
Less short-term portion
 
(1,250) 
Total long-term portion
9,703 
10,946 
All our notes are unsecured senior obligations. All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior 
to the notes. Our notes pay interest semi-annually. We may redeem each of our notes prior to maturity, subject to a 
make-whole premium as defined in the applicable form of note.
As of January 29, 2023, we were in compliance with the required covenants, which are non-financial in nature, under the 
Notes.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Commercial Paper
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of January 29, 2023, we 
had not issued any commercial paper.
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies
Purchase Obligations
Our purchase obligations reflect our commitments to purchase components used to manufacture our products, including 
long-term supply agreements, certain software and technology licenses, other goods and services and long-lived assets. 
We have entered into several long-term supply agreements, under which we have made advance payments and have 
$810 million remaining unpaid. As of January 29, 2023, we had outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply 
obligations totaling $4.92 billion, inclusive of the $810 million. Under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry 
suppliers, subcontractors and contract manufacturers, cancellation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally 
allowed but may result in the payment of costs incurred through the date of cancellation. Other non-inventory purchase 
obligations of $3.14 billion include $2.23 billion of multi-year cloud service agreements.
Total future purchase commitments as of January 29, 2023, are as follows:
 
Commitments
 
(In millions)
Fiscal Year:

5,230 

2029 and thereafter

Total
8,063 
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities
The estimated amount of product warranty liabilities was $82 million and $46 million as of January 29, 2023 and 
January 30, 2022, respectively. The estimated product returns and estimated product warranty activity consisted of the 
following: 
Year Ended
January 29,
January 30,
January 31,

(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period



Additions

Utilization
 
(109) 
 
(16) 
 
(21) 
Balance at end of period



In the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we recorded $122 million in product warranty liabilities primarily related to a 
defect identified in a third-party component embedded in certain Data Center products. In the third quarter of fiscal year 
2023, we recognized a warranty-related benefit of approximately $70 million in cost of revenue due to favorable product 
recovery.
In connection with certain agreements that we have entered in the past, we have provided indemnities for matters such 
as tax, product, and employee liabilities. We have included intellectual property indemnification provisions in our 
technology-related agreements with third parties. Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because 
many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability. We have not recorded any liability in our Consolidated 
Financial Statements for such indemnifications.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Litigation
Securities Class Action and Derivative Lawsuits 
The plaintiffs in the putative securities class action lawsuit, captioned 4:18-cv-07669-HSG, initially filed on December 21, 
2018 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, and titled In Re NVIDIA Corporation 
Securities Litigation, filed an amended complaint on May 13, 2020. The amended complaint asserted that NVIDIA and 
certain NVIDIA executives violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange 
Act, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making materially false or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact 
of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand between May 10, 2017 and November 14, 2018. Plaintiffs also alleged that the 
NVIDIA executives who they named as defendants violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Plaintiffs sought class 
certification, an award of unspecified compensatory damages, an award of reasonable costs and expenses, including 
attorneys’ fees and expert fees, and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper. On March 2, 2021, the district 
court granted NVIDIA’s motion to dismiss the complaint without leave to amend, entered judgment in favor of NVIDIA and 
closed the case. On March 30, 2021, plaintiffs filed an appeal from judgment in the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Ninth Circuit, case number 21-15604. Oral argument on the appeal was held on May 10, 2022.
The putative derivative lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, 
captioned 4:19-cv-00341-HSG, initially filed January 18, 2019 and titled In re NVIDIA Corporation Consolidated Derivative 
Litigation, was stayed pending resolution of the plaintiffs’ appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation 
action. On February 22, 2022, the court administratively closed the case, but stated that it would reopen the case once 
the appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation action is resolved. The lawsuit asserts claims, purportedly 
on behalf of us, against certain officers and directors of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, 
waste of corporate assets, and violations of Sections 14(a), 10(b), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on the 
dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of 
cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and other relief, including 
reforms and improvements to NVIDIA’s corporate governance and internal procedures.
The putative derivative actions initially filed September 24, 2019 and pending in the United States District Court for the 
District of Delaware, Lipchitz v. Huang, et al. (Case No. 1:19-cv-01795-UNA) and Nelson v. Huang, et. al. (Case No. 1:19cv-01798- UNA), remain stayed pending resolution of the plaintiffs’ appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities 
Litigation action. The lawsuits assert claims, purportedly on behalf of us, against certain officers and directors of the 
Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, insider trading, misappropriation of information, corporate 
waste and violations of Sections 14(a), 10(b), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on the dissemination of allegedly false, 
and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The 
plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief, including disgorgement of profits from the sale of NVIDIA stock and 
unspecified corporate governance measures.
Accounting for Loss Contingencies 
As of January 29, 2023, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings 
described above based on our belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, except as specifically 
described above, any possible loss or range of loss in these matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are 
engaged in legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of business and, while there can be no 
assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse 
effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 14 - Income Taxes
The income tax expense (benefit) applicable to income before income taxes consists of the following:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions)
Current income taxes:
 
 
 
Federal
1,703 


State

Foreign

Total current
 
1,977 

Deferred taxes:
 
 
 
Federal
 
(2,165) 
(420) 
(246) 
Foreign

(36) 
Total deferred
 
(2,164) 
(406) 
(282) 
Income tax expense (benefit)
(187) $ 


Income before income tax consists of the following:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions)
U.S.
3,477 
8,446 
1,437 
Foreign

1,495 
 
2,972 
Income before income tax
4,181 
9,941 
4,409 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The income tax expense (benefit) differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% to 
income before income taxes as follows:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions, except percentages)
Tax expense computed at federal statutory rate

 21.0 %
2,088 
 21.0 %

 21.0 %
Expense (benefit) resulting from:
Acquisition termination cost

 6.2 %
 
 — %
 
 — %
State income taxes, net of federal tax effect

 1.2 %

 0.4 %

 0.2 %
Foreign-derived intangible income
 
(739) 
 (17.7) %
 
(520) 
 (5.2) %
 
 — %
Stock-based compensation
 
(309) 
 (7.4) %
 
(337) 
 (3.4) %
 
(136) 
 (3.1) %
U.S. federal research and development tax credit
 
(278) 
 (6.6) %
 
(289) 
 (2.9) %
 
(173) 
 (3.9) %
Foreign tax rate differential
 
(83) 
 (2.0) %
 
(497) 
 (5.0) %
 
(561) 
 (12.7) %
IP domestication
 
 — %
 
(244) 
 (2.5) %
 
 — %
Other

 0.8 %
 
(54) 
 (0.5) %

 0.2 %
Income tax expense (benefit)
(187) 
 (4.5) %

 1.9 %

 1.7 %
 
The tax effect of temporary differences that gives rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
presented below: 
 
January 29,

January 30,

(In millions)
Deferred tax assets:
 
Capitalized research and development expenditure (1)
1,859 

Research and other tax credit carryforwards

GILTI deferred tax assets

Accruals and reserves, not currently deductible for tax purposes

Net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards

Operating lease liabilities

Stock-based compensation

Property, equipment and intangible assets

Other deferred tax assets

Gross deferred tax assets
 
5,154 
 
2,315 
Less valuation allowance
 
(1,484) 
(907) 
Total deferred tax assets
 
3,670 
 
1,408 
Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries
 
(228) 
(150) 
Operating lease assets
 
(179) 
(113) 
Acquired intangibles
 
(115) 
(169) 
Gross deferred tax liabilities
 
(522) 
(432) 
Net deferred tax asset (2)
3,148 

(1) Capitalized research and development deferred tax assets were previously included in Property, equipment and intangible assets.
(2) Net deferred tax asset includes long-term deferred tax assets of $3.40 billion and $1.22 billion and long-term deferred tax liabilities of $247 million and 
$245 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. Long-term deferred tax liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. 
As of January 29, 2023, we intend to indefinitely reinvest approximately $1.05 billion and $245 million of cumulative 
undistributed earnings held by certain subsidiaries in Israel and the United Kingdom, respectively. We have not provided 
the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to these investments as the 
determination of such amount is not practicable.
As of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, 
related to capital loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management determined not likely 
to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent 
realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as 
income tax benefits during the period.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

As of January 29, 2023, we had U.S. federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $363 million, $329 
million and $329 million, respectively. The federal and state carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal years 2026 and 
2024, respectively. The foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $329 million may be carried forward indefinitely. As of 
January 29, 2023, we had federal research tax credit carryforwards of $26 million, before the impact of uncertain tax 
positions, that will begin to expire in fiscal year 2024. We have state research tax credit carryforwards of $1.49 billion, 
before the impact of uncertain tax positions. $1.41 billion is attributable to the State of California and may be carried over 
indefinitely and $83 million is attributable to various other states and will begin to expire in fiscal year 2024. As of 
January 29, 2023, we had federal capital loss carryforwards of $1.38 billion that will begin to expire in fiscal year 2024. 
Our tax attributes remain subject to audit and may be adjusted for changes or modification in tax laws, other 
authoritative interpretations thereof, or other facts and circumstances. Utilization of tax attributes may also be subject 
to limitations due to ownership changes and other limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state 
and foreign tax provisions. If any such limitations apply, the tax attributes may expire or be denied before utilization.
A reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions)
Balance at beginning of period
1,013 


Increases in tax positions for current year

Increases in tax positions for prior years

Decreases in tax positions for prior years
 
(15) 
(4) 
(11) 
Settlements
 
(9) 
(8) 
(5) 
Lapse in statute of limitations
 
(20) 
(11) 
(9) 
Balance at end of period
1,238 
1,013 

Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 29, 2023 are $770 million of tax benefits that would 
affect our effective tax rate if recognized.
We classify an unrecognized tax benefit as a current liability, or amount refundable, to the extent that we anticipate 
payment or receipt of cash for income taxes within one year. The amount is classified as a long-term liability, or reduction 
of long-term amount refundable, if we anticipate payment or receipt of cash for income taxes during a period beyond a 
year.
We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. We 
recognized net interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense line of our consolidated 
statements of income of $33 million, $14 million, and $7 million during fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As 
of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, we have accrued $95 million and $59 million, respectively, for the payment of 
interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is not included as a component of our gross 
unrecognized tax benefits. 
While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be 
greater or less than our accrued position. Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax-related matters to 
be recorded in the future may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise 
resolved. As of January 29, 2023, we have not identified any positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total 
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
We are subject to taxation by taxing authorities both in the United States and other countries. As of January 29, 2023, 
the significant tax jurisdictions that may be subject to examination include China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, 
Taiwan, United Kingdom, and the United States for fiscal years 2005 through 2022. As of January 29, 2023, the 
significant tax jurisdictions for which we are currently under examination include Germany, India, Israel, and the United 
States for fiscal years 2005 through 2022.
Note 15 - Shareholders’ Equity
Capital Return Program
During fiscal year 2023, we repurchased 63 million shares for $10.04 billion. Since the inception of our share repurchase 
program through January 29, 2023, we have repurchased an aggregate of 1.10 billion shares under our share repurchase 
program for a total cost of $17.12 billion. As of January 29, 2023, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to 
repurchase an additional $7.23 billion of shares through December 2023.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

During fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, we paid $398 million, $399 million, and $395 million in cash dividends to our 
shareholders, respectively. Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are 
subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends 
thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders.
In fiscal year 2022, we retired our existing 349 million treasury shares. These shares assumed the status of authorized 
and unissued shares upon retirement. The excess of repurchase price over par value was allocated between additional 
paid-in capital and retained earnings, resulting in a reduction in additional paid-in capital by $20 million and retained 
earnings by $12.0 billion. Any future repurchased shares will assume the status of authorized and unissued shares.
Note 16 - Employee Retirement Plans
We provide tax-qualified defined contribution plans to eligible employees in the U.S. and certain other countries. Our 
contribution expense for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $227 million, $168 million, and $120 million, respectively.
Note 17 - Segment Information 
Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial 
information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making decisions and assessing financial 
performance.
The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated computing platform; networking; automotive 
AI Cockpit, autonomous driving development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle computing 
platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; and NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and CMP.
The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and 
related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; 
vGPU software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and 
Omniverse Enterprise software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. 
Operating results by segment include costs or expenses that are directly attributable to each segment, and costs or 
expenses that are leveraged across our unified architecture and therefore allocated between our two segments.
The “All Other” category includes the expenses that our CODM does not assign to either Compute & Networking or 
Graphics for purposes of making operating decisions or assessing financial performance. The expenses include stockbased compensation expense, acquisition-related and other costs, corporate infrastructure and support costs, 
restructuring costs, acquisition termination cost, IP-related and legal settlement costs, contributions, and other nonrecurring charges and benefits that our CODM deems to be enterprise in nature. 
Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a reportable segment basis. Depreciation and 
amortization expense directly attributable to each reportable segment is included in operating results for each segment. 
However, the CODM does not evaluate depreciation and amortization expense by operating segment and, therefore, it is 
not separately presented. There is no intersegment revenue. The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same 
as for our consolidated financial statements. The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All 
Other” category.
 
Compute & 
Networking
Graphics
All Other
Consolidated
(In millions)
Year Ended January 29, 2023:
 
 
 
Revenue
15,068 
11,906 
26,974 
Operating income (loss)
5,083 
4,552 
(5,411) $ 
4,224 
Year Ended January 30, 2022:
 
 
 
Revenue
11,046 
15,868 
26,914 
Operating income (loss)
4,598 
8,492 
(3,049) $ 
10,041 
Year Ended January 31, 2021:
 
 
 
Revenue
6,841 
9,834 
16,675 
Operating income (loss)
2,548 
4,612 
(2,628) $ 
4,532 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Year Ended
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

(In millions)
Reconciling items included in "All Other" category:
Stock-based compensation expense
(2,710) $ 
(2,004) $ 
(1,397) 
Acquisition termination cost
 
(1,353) 
 
Acquisition-related and other costs
 
(674) 
(636) 
(836) 
Unallocated cost of revenue and operating expenses
 
(595) 
(399) 
(357) 
Restructuring costs and other
 
(54) 
 
IP-related and legal settlement costs
 
(23) 
(10) 
(38) 
Contributions
 
(2) 
 
Total
(5,411) $ 
(3,049) $ 
(2,628) 
Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the billing location of the customer. End 
customer location may be different than our customer’s billing location. The following table summarizes information 
pertaining to our revenue from customers based on the invoicing address by geographic regions: 
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

Revenue:
(In millions)
United States
8,292 
4,349 
3,214 
Taiwan
 
6,986 
 
8,544 
 
4,531 
China (including Hong Kong)
 
5,785 
 
7,111 
 
3,886 
Other countries
 
5,911 
 
6,910 
 
5,044 
Total revenue
26,974 
26,914 
16,675 
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021.
Two customers accounted for 14% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 29, 2023. Two customers 
each accounted for 11% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 30, 2022.
The following table summarizes information pertaining to our revenue by each of the specialized markets we serve:
 
Year Ended
 
January 29,

January 30,

January 31,

Revenue:
(In millions)
Data Center
15,005 
10,613 
6,696 
Gaming
 
9,067 
 
12,462 
 
7,759 
Professional Visualization
 
1,544 
 
2,111 
 
1,053 
Automotive

OEM & Other

1,162 

Total revenue
26,974 
26,914 
16,675 
The following table presents summarized information for long-lived assets by country. Long-lived assets consist of 
property and equipment and exclude other assets, operating lease assets, goodwill, and intangible assets.
 
January 29,

January 30,

Long-lived assets:
(In millions)
United States
2,587 
2,023 
Taiwan

Israel

Other countries

Total long-lived assets
3,807 
2,778 

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Description
Balance at
Beginning of 
Period
Additions
 
Deductions
 
Balance at
End of Period
 
(In millions)
Fiscal year 2023
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

— (1)
— (1)

Sales return allowance

104 (2)
(91) (4)

Deferred tax valuation allowance

577 (3)
1,484 
Fiscal year 2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

— (1)
— (1)

Sales return allowance

19 (2)
(23) (4)

Deferred tax valuation allowance

179 (3)

Fiscal year 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for doubtful accounts

2 (1)
— (1)

Sales return allowance

30 (2)
(22) (4)

Deferred tax valuation allowance

107 (3)

(1)
Additions represent either expense or acquired balances and deductions represent write-offs.
(2)
Additions represent estimated product returns charged as a reduction to revenue or an acquired balance.
(3)
Additional valuation allowance on deferred tax assets not likely to be realized. Fiscal year 2023 includes additional valuation allowance on capital loss 
carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
(4)
Represents sales returns.

EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No.
Exhibit Description
Schedule/
Form
File Number
Exhibit
Filing Date
2.1
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 10, 2019, by and 
among NVIDIA Corporation, NVIDIA International Holdings Inc., 
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. and Teal Barvaz Ltd.
8-K
0-23985
2.1
3/11/2019
2.2^
Share Purchase Agreement, dated September 13, 2020, by and 
among NVIDIA, NVIDIA Holdings, Arm, SoftBank, and Vision 
Fund
8-K
0-23985
2.1
9/14/2020
3.1
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
10-K
0-23985
3.1
3/18/2022
3.2
Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of NVIDIA 
Corporation
8-K
0-23985
3.1
6/6/2022
3.3
Bylaws of NVIDIA Corporation, Amended and Restated as of 
March 3, 2022
8-K
0-23985
3.1
3/9/2022
4.1
Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3
4.2
Specimen Stock Certificate
S-1/A
333-47495
4.2
4/24/1998
4.3
Indenture, dated as of September 16, 2016, by and between the 
Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as 
successor to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee
8-K
0-23985
4.1
9/16/2016
4.4
Officers’ Certificate, dated as of September 16, 2016
8-K
0-23985
4.2
9/16/2016
4.5
Form of 2026 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
9/16/2016
4.6*
Description of Securities
4.7
Officers’ Certificate, dated as of March 31, 2020
8-K
0-23985
4.2
3/31/2020
4.8
Form of 2030 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex A-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.9
Form of 2040 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.10
Form of 2050 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex C-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.11
Form of 2060 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex D-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
3/31/2020
4.12
Officers' Certificate, dated as of June 16, 2021
8-K
0-23985
4.2
6/16/2021
4.13
Form of 2023 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex A-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.14
Form of 2024 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex B-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.15
Form of 2028 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex C-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
4.16
Form of 2031 Note
8-K
0-23985
Annex D-1 to 
Exhibit 4.2
6/16/2021
10.1
Form of Indemnity Agreement between NVIDIA Corporation and 
each of its directors and officers
8-K
0-23985
10.1
3/7/2006
10.2+*
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
10.3+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - NonEmployee Director Stock Option Grant (2012 Annual Board 
Retainer)
10-Q
0-23985
10.4
5/23/2012
10.4+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non 
Statutory Stock Option
10-Q
0-23985
10.1
8/22/2012
10.5+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Incentive 
Stock Option
10-Q
0-23985
10.2
8/22/2012
10.6+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - NonEmployee Director Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice 
and Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2016)
10-K
0-23985
10.26
3/12/2015
10.7+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - NonEmployee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2016)
10-K
0-23985
10.27
3/12/2015
10.8+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Restricted 
Stock Unit Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement & 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2018)
10-Q
0-23985
10.2
5/22/2018
10.9+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock 
Unit Agreement (2019)
10-K
0-23985
10.19
2/21/2019
10.10+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2019)
8-K
0-23985
10.1
3/11/2019
10.11+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock 
Unit Agreement (2020)
10-Q
0-23985
10.2
5/21/2020
10.12+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock 
Unit Agreement (2021)
10-Q
0-23985
10.2
5/26/2021

10.13+
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock 
Unit Agreement (2022)
10-K
0-23985
10.16
3/18/2022
10.14+*
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan – Global 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock 
Unit Agreement (2023)
10.15+
Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
10-Q
0-23985
10.2
8/20/2021
10.16+
Fiscal Year 2022 Variable Compensation Plan
8-K
0-23985
10.1
3/19/2021
10.17+
Fiscal Year 2023 Variable Compensation Plan
8-K
0-23985
10.1
3/9/2022
10.18+
Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Colette Kress, 
dated September 13, 2013
8-K
0-23985
10.1
9/16/2013
10.19+
Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Tim Teter, dated 
December 16, 2016
8-K
0-23985
10.1
1/19/2017
10.20+
Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Donald 
Robertson, dated May 21, 2019
8-K
0-23985
10.1
6/17/2019
10.21
Form of Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between NVIDIA 
Corporation, as Issuer, and the Dealer party thereto
8-K
0-23985
10.1
12/15/2017
21.1*
List of Registrant's Subsidiaries
23.1*
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
24.1*
Power of Attorney (included in signature page)
31.1*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
31.2*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
32.1#*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
32.2#*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page interactive data file does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags 
are embedded within the Inline XBRL document
* Filed herewith.
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
# In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management's Reports on Internal 
Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 
hereto are deemed to accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed “filed” for purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such 
certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that 
the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
^ Certain exhibits and schedules have been omitted in accordance with Regulation S-K Item 601(a)(5). 
Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available to any shareholder upon written request to:
Investor Relations: NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051
ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY
Not Applicable.

SIGNATURES
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 24, 2023.

By:
/s/ Jen-Hsun Huang 
 
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
President and Chief Executive Officer
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Jen-Hsun Huang and Colette M. Kress, and each or any one of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with 
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign 
any and all amendments to this report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection 
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-facts and agents, and each of 
them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in 
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and 
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitutes or substitutes, may 
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature
Title
Date
/s/ JEN-HSUN HUANG 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
February 24, 2023
Jen-Hsun Huang
 
/s/ COLETTE M. KRESS 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
February 24, 2023
Colette M. Kress
 
/s/ DONALD ROBERTSON
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
February 24, 2023
Donald Robertson
/s/ ROBERT BURGESS
Director
February 24, 2023
Robert Burgess
/s/ TENCH COXE 
Director
February 24, 2023
Tench Coxe 
 
/s/ JOHN O. DABIRI
Director
February 24, 2023
John O. Dabiri
 
/s/ PERSIS DRELL
Director
February 24, 2023
Persis Drell
/s/ DAWN HUDSON
Director
February 24, 2023
Dawn Hudson
/s/ HARVEY C. JONES 
Director
February 24, 2023
Harvey C. Jones
 
/s/ MICHAEL MCCAFFERY
Director
February 24, 2023
Michael McCaffery
/s/ STEPHEN C. NEAL
Director
February 24, 2023
Stephen C. Neal
/s/ MARK L. PERRY 
Director
February 24, 2023
Mark L. Perry 
 
/s/ A. BROOKE SEAWELL
Director
February 24, 2023
A. Brooke Seawell 
/s/ AARTI SHAH
Director
February 24, 2023
Aarti Shah
/s/ MARK STEVENS
Director
February 24, 2023
Mark Stevens 

Corporate Information
Board Of Directors
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer 

Robert K. Burgess 
Independent Consultant
Tench Coxe 
Former Managing Director 
Sutter Hill Ventures
John O. Dabiri 
Centennial Professor of Aeronautics and 
Mechanical Engineering 
California Institute of Technology
Persis S. Drell 
Provost 
Stanford University
Dawn Hudson 
Former Chief Marketing Officer 
National Football League
Harvey C. Jones 
Managing Partner 
Square Wave Ventures
Michael G. McCaffery 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Makena Capital Management
Stephen C. Neal 
Chairman Emeritus 
and Senior Counsel 
Cooley LLP
Mark L. Perry (Lead Director) 
Independent Consultant and Director
A. Brooke Seawell 
Venture Partner 
New Enterprise Associates
Aarti Shah 
Former Senior Vice President and Chief 
Information and Digital Officer 
Eli Lilly and Company
Mark A. Stevens 
Managing Partner 
S-Cubed Capital
Founders
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer
Chris A. Malachowsky 
Founder and NVIDIA Fellow
Executive Team
Colette M. Kress 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer
Jay Puri 
Executive Vice President 
Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist 
Executive Vice President 
Operations
Timothy S. Teter 
Executive Vice President 
General Counsel and Secretary
Independent Accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
488 Almaden Boulevard, Suite 1800 
San Jose, California 95110
General Legal Counsel
Cooley LLP 
3175 Hanover Street 
Palo Alto, California 94304 
Transfer Agent 
And Registrar
Computershare 
P.O Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
www.computershare.com/investor
Annual Meeting
June 22, 2023, at 11:00 a.m. PDT
Online at: 
www.virtualshareholder 
meeting.com/NVDA2023
Form 10-K
A copy of NVIDIA’s Form 10-K filed 
with the SEC will be made available 
to all shareholders at no charge.
The Form 10-K also can be accessed 
through the SEC website at 
www.sec.gov, or through NVIDIA’s 
Investor Relations website at 
investor.nvidia.com
To receive a copy by mail 
please contact: 
 
Investor Relations 

2788 San Tomas Expressway 
Santa Clara, California 95051 
shareholdermeeting@nvidia.com

© 2023 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.